Late one July evening in 1994 , Red and Abby Whitshank had a phone call from their son Denny . They were getting ready for bed at the time . Abby was standing at the bureau in her slip , drawing hairpins one by one from her scattery sand-colored topknot . Red , a dark , gaunt man in striped pajama bottoms and a white T-shirt , had just sat down on the edge of the bed to take his socks off ; so when the phone rang on the nightstand beside him , he was the one who answered . " Whitshank residence , " he said . And then , " Well , hey there . " Abby turned from the mirror , both arms still raised to her head . " What 's that , " he said , without a question mark . " Huh ? " he said . " Oh , what the hell , Denny ! " Abby dropped her arms . " Hello ? " he said . " Wait . Hello ? Hello ? " " What ? " Abby asked him . " Says he 's gay . " " What ? " " Said he needed to tell me something : he 's gay . " " And you hung up on him ! " " No , Abby . He hung up on me . All I said was ' What the hell , ' and he hung up on me . Click ! Just like that . " " Oh , Red , how could you ? " Abby wailed . She spun away to reach for her bathrobe-a no-color chenille that had once been pink . She wrapped it around her and tied the sash tightly . " What possessed you to say that ? " she asked him . " I did n't mean anything by it ! Somebody springs something on you , you 're going to say ' What the hell , ' right ? " Abby grabbed a handful of the hair that pouffed over her forehead . " What are you going to think up next to worry us with ? ' And he knew I meant that . Believe me , he knew . But now he can make this all my fault , my narrow-mindedness or fuddy-duddiness or whatever he wants to call it . He was glad I said that to him . You could tell by how fast he hung up on me ; he 'd been just hoping all along that I would say the wrong thing . " " All right , " Abby said , turning practical . " Where was he calling from ? " " How would I know where he was calling from ? He does n't have a fixed address , has n't been in touch all summer , already changed jobs twice that we know of and probably more that we do n't know of ... A nineteen-year-old boy and we have no idea what part of the planet he 's on ! You 've got to wonder what 's wrong , there . " " Think . Could he have been right here in Baltimore ? " " I do n't know , Abby . " She sat down next to him . The mattress slanted in her direction ; she was a wide , solid woman . " We have to find him , " she said . Then , " We should have that whatsit-caller ID . " She leaned forward and gazed fiercely at the phone . " Oh , God , I want caller ID this instant ! " " What for ? So you could phone him back and he could just let it ring ? " " He would n't do that . He would know it was me . He would answer , if he knew it was me. " She jumped up from the bed and started pacing back and forth , up and down the Persian runner that was worn nearly white in the middle from all the times she had paced it before . " What did his voice sound like ? " she asked . " Was he nervous ? Was he upset ? " " He was fine . " " So you say . Had he been drinking , do you think ? " " I could n't tell . " " Were other people with him ? " " I could n't tell , Abby . " " Or maybe ... one other person ? " He sent her a sharp look . " You are not thinking he was serious , " he said . " Of course he was serious ! Why else would he say it ? " " The boy is n't gay , Abby . " " How do you know that ? " " He just is n't . Mark my words . You 're going to feel silly , by and by , like , ' Shoot , I overreacted . ' ? " " Does n't your female intuition tell you anything at all ? This is a kid who got a girl in trouble before he was out of high school ! " " So ? That does n't mean a thing . It might even have been a symptom . " " Come again ? " " We can never know with absolute certainty what another person 's sex life is like . " " No , thank God , " Red said . He bent over , with a grunt , and reached beneath the bed for his slippers . Abby , meanwhile , had stopped pacing and was staring once more at the phone . She set a hand on the receiver . She hesitated . Then she snatched up the receiver and pressed it to her ear for half a second before slamming it back down . " The thing about caller ID is , " Red said , more or less to himself , " it seems a little like cheating . " He heaved himself to his feet and started toward the bathroom . Behind him , Abby said , " This would explain so much ! Would n't it ? If he should turn out to be gay . " Red was closing the bathroom door by then , but he poked his head back out to glare at her . His fine black eyebrows , normally straight as rulers , were knotted almost together . " Sometimes , " he said , " I rue and deplore the day I married a social worker . " Then he shut the door very firmly . When he returned , Abby was sitting upright in bed with her arms clamped across the lace bosom of her nightgown . " You are surely not going to try and blame Denny 's problems on my profession , " she told him . " I 'm just saying a person can be too understanding , " he said . " Too sympathizing and pitying , like . ' ? " " Well , count on a social worker to think that . " She gave an exasperated puff of a breath , and then she sent another glance toward the phone . It was on Red 's side of the bed , not hers . Red raised the covers and got in , blocking her view . He reached over and snapped off the lamp on the nightstand . The room fell into darkness , with just a faint glow from the two tall , gauzy windows overlooking the front lawn . Red was lying flat now , but Abby went on sitting up . She said , " Do you think he 'll call us back ? " " Oh , yes . Sooner or later . " " It took all his courage to call the first time , " she said . " Maybe he used up every bit he had . " " Courage ! What courage ? We 're his parents ! Abby said . " That 's ridiculous . I 've never raised a hand to him . " " No , but you disapprove of him . You 're always finding fault with him . With the girls you 're such a softie , and then Stem is more your kind of person . While Denny ! Things come harder to Denny . Sometimes I think you do n't like him . " " Abby , for God 's sake . You know that 's not true . " Oh , you love him , all right . But I 've seen the way you look at him-'Who is this person ? ' -and do n't you think for a moment that he has n't seen it too . " " If that 's the case , " Red said , " how come it 's you he 's always trying to get away from ? " " He 's not trying to get away from me ! " " Kid preferred to change his own sheets rather than let you in to do it for him ! Hardly ever brought his friends home , would n't say what their names were , would n't even tell you what he did in school all day . ' Get out of my life , Mom , ' he was saying . ' Stop meddling , stop prying , stop breathing down my neck . ' His least favorite picture book-the one he hated so much he tore out all the pages , remember ? -had that baby rabbit that wants to change into a fish and a cloud and such so he can get away , and the mama rabbit keeps saying how she will change too and come after him . Denny ripped out every single everlasting page ! " " That had nothing to do with- " " You wonder why he 's turned gay ? It is always the smothering mother . " " Oh ! " Abby said . " That is just so outdated and benighted and so ... wrong , I 'm not even going to dignify it with an answer . " " You 're certainly using a lot of words to tell me so . " " And how about the father , if you want to go back to the Dark Ages for your theories ? How about the macho , construction-guy father who tells his son to buck up , show some spunk , quit whining about the small stuff , climb the darn roof and hammer the slates in ? " " You do n't hammer slates in , Abby . " " How about him ? " she asked . " Okay , fine ! I did that . I was the world 's worst parent . It 's done . " There was a moment of quiet . The only sound came from outside-the whisper of a car slipping past . " " Well , " Red said . Another moment of quiet . Abby asked , " Is n't there a number you can punch that will dial the last person who called ? " " Star sixty-nine , " Red said instantly . He cleared his throat . " But you are surely not going to do that . " " Why not ? " " Denny was the one who chose to end the conversation , might I point out . " " His feelings were hurt , was why , " Abby said . " If his feelings were hurt , he 'd have taken his time hanging up . He would n't have been so quick to cut me off . But he hung up like he was just waiting to hang up . Oh , he was practically rubbing his hands together , giving me that news ! He starts right in . ' I 'd like to tell you something , ' he says . " " " Well , one or the other , " Red said . " Which was it ? " " Does it matter ? " " Yes , it matters . " He thought a moment . Then he tried it out under his breath . " ? ' I need to tell you something , ' ? " he tried . " ? ' I 'd like to tell you something . ' ' Dad , I 'd like to- ' ? " He broke off . " I honestly do n't remember , " he said . " Could you dial star sixty-nine , please ? " " I ca n't figure out his reasoning . He knows I 'm not anti-gay . I 've got a gay guy in charge of our drywall , for Lord 's sake . Denny knows that . I ca n't figure out why he thought this would bug me . I mean , of course I 'm not going to be thrilled . Abby said . The phone rang . Red grabbed the receiver at the very same instant that Abby flung herself across him to grab it herself . He had it first , but there was a little tussle and somehow she was the one who ended up with it . She sat up straight and said , " Denny ? " Then she said , " Oh . Jeannie. " Red lay flat again . " No , no , we 're not in bed yet , " she said . There was a pause . " Certainly . What 's wrong with yours ? " Another pause . " It 's no trouble at all . I 'll see you at eight tomorrow . Bye . " She held the receiver toward Red , and he took it from her and reached over to replace it in its cradle . " She wants to borrow my car , " she told him . She sank back onto her side of the bed . " " No , " Red said , " I guess not . " " Oh , Red . Oh , what are we going to do ? We 'll never , ever hear from him again ! He 's not going to give us another chance ! " " Now , hon , " he told her . " We 'll hear from him . I promise . " And he reached for her and drew her close , settling her head on his shoulder . They lay like that for some time , until gradually Abby stopped fidgeting and her breaths grew slow and even . Red , though , went on staring up into the dark . At one point , he mouthed some words to himself in an experimental way . " ' ... need to tell you something , ' " he mouthed , not even quite whispering it . Then , " ' ... like to tell you something . ' " Then , " .. ' " He tossed his head impatiently on his pillow . He started over . " ' ... tell you something : I 'm gay . ' ' ... tell you something : I think I 'm gay . ' ' I 'm gay . ' ' I think I 'm gay . ' ' I think I may be gay . ' ' I 'm gay . ' " But eventually he grew silent , and at last he fell asleep too . Well , of course they did hear from him again . The Whitshanks were n't a melodramatic family . Not even Denny was the type to disappear off the face of the earth , or sever all contact , or stop speaking-or not permanently , at least . It was true that he skipped the beach trip that summer , but he might have skipped it anyhow ; he had to make his pocket money for the following school year . And he did telephone in September . " What did you talk about ? " Abby demanded , and Red said , " I told him his textbooks had to come out of his earnings . " " I mean , did you talk about that last phone call ? Did you apologize ? Did you explain ? Did you ask him any questions ? " " We did n't really get into it . " " Red ! " Abby said . " This is classic ! This is such a classic reaction : a young person announces he 's gay and his family just carries on like before , pretending they did n't hear . " " Well , fine , " Red said . " Call him back . Get in touch with his dorm. " Abby looked uncertain . " What reason should I give him for calling ? " she asked . " Say you want to grill him . " " He wanted to change his arrival date , because first he was going to Hibbing to visit his girlfriend . His girlfriend ! " What could I say ? " Abby asked Red later . " I had to say , ' Okay , fine . ' ? " " What could you say , " Red agreed . He did n't refer to the subject again , but Abby herself sort of simmered and percolated all those weeks before Christmas . You could tell she was just itching to get things out in the open . The rest of the family edged around her warily . They knew nothing about the gay announcement-Red and Abby had concurred on that much , not to tell them without Denny 's say-so-but they could sense that something was up . Eskil reminding them of the terms of their contract : the Whitshanks would be responsible for the next semester 's tuition even though Denny had withdrawn . " ' Withdrawn , ' ? " Abby repeated . She was the one who had opened the letter , although both of them were reading it . The slow , considering way she spoke brought out all the word 's ramifications . Denny had withdrawn ; he was withdrawn ; he had withdrawn from the family years ago . What other middle-class American teenager lived the way he did-flitting around the country like a vagrant , completely out of his parents ' control , getting in touch just sporadically and neglecting whenever possible to give them any means of getting in touch with him ? How had things come to such a pass ? They certainly had n't allowed the other children to behave this way . Red and Abby looked at each other for a long , despairing moment . His gayness , or his non-gayness , just seemed to get lost in the shuffle . " I can almost see now why some families pretend they were n't told , " Abby said after the holidays . " Mm-hmm , " Red said , poker-faced. 
The impossibly thin woman sitting next to Cassie Carter in the King County Courthouse in Seattle trembled like an oak leaf in a storm . When the judge entered the courtroom and they were asked to rise , Maureen could barely manage to get to her feet . Cassie wrapped her arm around the other woman 's waist and helped her to stand upright . Maureen was skin and bone , so thin Cassie could feel her ribs . She 'd been that thin once herself . Like Maureen , she had been beaten down , battered , and emotionally broken . " You 're doing great , " Cassie whispered . She understood all too well what courage it took for Maureen to testify against her husband . Cassie had sat in a similar courtroom in Florida , only she 'd sat alone . Duke , her husband , had glared at her as she 'd slowly walked toward the witness stand , his dark eyes filled with hatred . Eyes that said he would kill her if he got the chance . He nearly had . He 'd had a few beers with friends and come home and found Cassie did n't yet have dinner ready . To show her how displeased he was , he 'd slapped her . Cassie had been stunned . Her father had never laid a hand on her mother or her , nor her two sisters . Horrified , she 'd pressed her hand to her cheek , hardly knowing what to think . That was the first of many such slaps . Afterward he was sorry . He felt horrible that he could do anything to hurt the woman he loved beyond life itself . He 'd cover his face and weep , begging her forgiveness . The irony of it was that she , the one who 'd been hurt , would rationalize his anger and comfort him . Shocking , really , when she thought about it . Duke hit her and she was the one who apologized. As the years progressed , the slaps turned to slugs and the slugs into beatings . The look that said her days were numbered . She would pay for what she 'd done . That final time , as Duke 's fists pounded down on her , Cassie had been terrified by the cold hate in her husband 's eyes . Duke would not stop until he killed her . It was as clear as the writing on a highway billboard . In that breathless moment , Cassie knew beyond a doubt that she was about to die . She lost consciousness briefly , and when she came to again she heard him rifling through the kitchen drawers . She knew he was searching for a knife . Carried by adrenaline , numb with fear , she managed to escape into her daughter 's bedroom and blocked the door by tilting a chair beneath the knob . She grabbed seven -- year -- old Amiee and fled out the window . She did n't take her purse or her identification or any money . Cassie had n't needed anything else . The one precious thing that had come out of her marriage had been her daughter . Fleeing to a women 's shelter , Cassie was given housing and assistance . Duke was arrested and sentenced to a six -- month jail term . Cassie had taken those months to put her life together . And to try to make her way back to the good life she 'd left behind . The hardest part had n't even been leaving Duke after all -- it was that she did n't have her family 's support . She was on her own , without her parents , without her sisters . She had to do it alone , and so she had . " What if the judge does n't believe me ? " Maureen whispered , her voice trembling to the point that her words were barely discernible . " He has the police report , " Cassie assured her . " I ... " Lonny does n't mean to hurt me ... he ca n't help himself . He has a temper , you see , and it gets away from him . He does n't know what he 's doing . He ca n't help himself . " " Maureen , we 've been through this . It is n't your fault that your husband hits you . You 've done nothing wrong . " Cassie recognized the thought process : If only she 'd been a better wife , a better housekeeper , a better mother , then Duke would n't be upset . It was her failings that brought on the abuse . Only later , with counseling and patience , did she accept that the blame was n't hers . She had done nothing to deserve the beatings Duke gave her . " But ... " " I was married to a man who beat me , " Cassie reminded her . " I thought it was my fault , too . I should have remembered . How could I have been so stupid ? Maureen , think about it . Would you pound your fist into your daughter 's face for something like that ? " " No , never ... I 'd never hit one of my children . " " I did n't deserve it , either , and neither did you . " Maureen stared up at her with wide , blank eyes . At one time Cassie 's eyes had had that same hollowed , hopeless look . " I 'll be right here , " she promised the other woman . " I 'm not going to leave you . Once we 're finished I 'll take you back to the shelter . " Maureen gripped her hands together in a hold so tight her fingers went white . " I can do this . " " Yes , you can , " Cassie assured her and gave her thin body a gentle squeeze . " Think of your children . " Cassie assured her . " But what will I do then ? " " The shelter will help you get a job and find housing . " Cassie had already been through this with Maureen a number of times , but the fragile soul needed to hear it again . " The paperwork ... " " I 'll help you fill out the forms , Maureen . " Cassie understood the other woman 's fears . As easy as it might sound to others , little things like obtaining a driver 's license or completing a job application seemed overwhelming . Duke had refused to allow Cassie to drive . It became a control issue with him . If she had access to a car she might leave him . When they 'd married she 'd had a license , but it had long since expired and was from a different state . The job had never materialized , but he 'd succeeded in getting her far from family , friends , and all that was familiar . To anyone who had n't been the victim of domestic violence , the hesitation to testify , to put the aggressor behind bars , was incomprehensible . Only those who 'd walked through this madness understood what courage it took , what fortitude and pure nerve were required to stand up in court and admit what they had endured . When Maureen was called to the witness stand , Cassie held her breath . She slid to the very edge of the hard wooden seat as the young mother reluctantly stood . " Do n't look at Lonny , " Cassie advised , giving the other woman 's hand a gentle squeeze as she scooted past . " If you need to , focus on me instead . " Maureen was deathly pale and her nod was barely noticeable . Twice the judge had to ask Maureen to speak up in order for her to be heard . Cassie wanted to cheer when Maureen squared her shoulders as resolve came to her . She looked directly at the judge and said clearly , " Please do n't let him hurt me again . " With that , she stood and started to leave the witness stand . Lonny roared to his feet and started toward her . Maureen screamed and two deputies rushed forward , restraining Maureen 's husband while he blurted out profanities and threats . The judge 's gavel pounded like shotgun blasts through the courtroom , the sounds sharp and discordant . " Order , " he demanded . " Order in the court . " Maureen fled to where Cassie waited . Cassie immediately wrapped her arms around the other woman and led her out of the courtroom . She 'd testified and nothing more was required of her . The prosecuting attorney would touch base with Cassie later in the day after he 'd spoken to Maureen . The case was rock -- solid and there was no reason to believe Lonny would escape jail time . Part of Cassie 's work as a victim advocate was to provide transportation for Maureen to the courthouse and back to the women 's shelter where Maureen and her two children were currently housed . She helped the shaking Maureen across the parking lot . At this point all Cassie 's work was on a volunteer basis . She 'd taken the formal training , and one day , God willing , she 'd have the chance to go to college for a degree in social work with a minor in criminal law . That , for now , was a pipe dream . Maureen did n't speak until they were in Cassie 's car . Once her seat belt was in place , she released a stuttering sigh as if only now was she able to breathe . " You did it , " " Cassie did n't have the heart to tell her that this was only the beginning . When someone had been beaten down for years , making even the simplest decision seemed paralyzing . Maureen and her children would need counseling and hand -- holding . Fortunately , Maureen was already in a support group . In an effort to lend encouragement and guidance , Cassie had sat with her for a couple sessions . Maureen had listened without speaking , although she 'd nodded a couple times . Lacey Wilson , who facilitated the group , did an excellent job of steering the conversation . The women who attended were at different stages of the healing process . They drove to the shelter , and Cassie walked Maureen inside . She glanced at her watch and saw that she was already late for work . Maureen seemed reluctant to let her go . " Will I see you this evening ? " she asked , following Cassie back to the door . Maureen blocked the entrance to the shelter , her look imploring Cassie to stay with her . " I 'll be back later , " Cassie assured her . " You promise ? " How needy she sounded , uncertain and afraid , looking at Cassie with wide eyes , full of fear , fear of the unknown , fear of the future . Cassie knew about that , too . Leaving Duke had required grit and raw courage , but everything afterward had as well . " You promise , " Maureen repeated . " I promise , but for now I need to get to work . " Cassie had a job , one that supported her and Amiee . She worked as a hairstylist at a local salon in a quaint community in the south end of Seattle known as Kent . The shelter had supported her while she got the training she needed , and in exchange she 'd worked at the shelter , cleaning and cooking . Thankfully , she had n't seen or heard from Duke since that fateful day when she 'd testified against him in a Florida courtroom . By the time Cassie arrived at work , every chair at Goldie Locks was filled , with the exception of Cassie 's . Working as an independent contractor , Cassie paid Teresa Sanchez , the shop owner , a rental fee for the hair station . This meant she was responsible for paying for her own products , setting her own schedule , building up a clientele , and , probably the most difficult , setting aside money each quarter to pay the state business tax and her federal income tax . " Mrs. Belcher is here for her haircut , " Rosie , the receptionist , mentioned as Cassie reached for her protective top . She zipped it into place and grabbed a banana off the fruit bowl in the middle of the table . That would have to do for lunch . Rosie said , as Cassie peeled away the banana 's skin . " Here ? Really ? " " The envelope is handwritten and has a postmark from Spokane . You know anyone in Spokane ? " Cassie went still . The only person who would write to her from the Columbia Basin was her older sister , Karen . When Cassie first moved to Kent she 'd stayed briefly in the same shelter where Maureen and her children were currently housed . Right away she 'd reached out to her older sister in Spokane but explained this was only a temporary address . If Karen wanted or needed to get in touch for now , the best address would be the hair salon where she was employed . Until now Karen had n't contacted her . Despite efforts to reconnect with her family , Cassie had a tenuous relationship with her two sisters . After a bitter argument with her parents and older sister , Cassie had run away to marry Duke . .. " It 's in back . Do you want me to get it for you ? " Rosie asked . " Not now . " It amazed her how unsettled she felt . The bite of banana seemed to stick in her throat and it took considerable effort to swallow . Cassie could n't imagine what her sister would have to say to her . Then again , she could . Karen had done everything right . Following graduation , she 'd gone on to college , married , and had two perfect children . She 'd stayed in Spokane and helped their parents . Their father had died unexpectedly of a brain aneurysm only a few weeks after Cassie had broken free of Duke . She had been penniless and living in the shelter , and there was no possibility of Cassie returning home for the funeral . Her mother and sisters were in shock themselves . Cassie was too proud to explain her circumstances . All her family knew was that she 'd left Duke and was living in Florida . Cassie had always been especially close to her father . Of the three girls , she 'd been his favorite . He 'd been proud of Cassie 's accomplishments , her high grades , the four -- year scholarship she 'd garnered upon graduation . Then she 'd thrown it all away for Duke . Her father had never gotten over her turning her back on that scholarship and marrying Duke . Her sisters , either . " Cassie ? " Rosie said , breaking into her thoughts . " Mrs. Belcher is waiting . " " Yes ... I 'm sorry . " " You looked a million miles away . " " I was , " she said , forcing a smile . She left the break room , leaving the banana behind , and collected Mrs. she said , when she looked up at Cassie . " Who are these stars , anyway ? " She shook her head and set the magazine aside . Cassie led her customer to her station and slipped a plastic cape over the older woman 's shoulders , securing it with snaps at the back of Mrs. Belcher 's neck . " I hope I did n't keep you waiting long , " Cassie apologized. " Not at all , " Mrs. Belcher assured her . " I 'm just grateful to get an appointment . You 're always so busy , and Cassie , my dear , just look at how long my hair is . I 'm desperate . I ca n't do a thing with it . My husband told me this morning that I resemble a shaggy dog , and he 's right . " Cassie met the other woman 's eyes in the mirror and smiled . " I 'll take care of that in short order . Now let me take you to the shampoo station . She stared at the envelope several moments before she had the courage to tear it open . Inside was a single sheet of paper . Rosie watched as Cassie read the letter . It did n't take her long . " Well ? " Rosie asked . The receptionist was the salon owner 's cousin and not the least bit shy about asking awkward questions . " This is the first time Karen has reached out to me since my divorce , " Cassie said , unable to tear her gaze from the letter . " Do you think your sister wants to mend fences ? " Rosie asked , lowering her eyes toward the printed page as if hoping to read a few lines herself . " I do n't know . " Cassie was n't getting her hopes up . Rosie 's dark , expressive eyes widened . " Are you mad at her ? " " I was never angry with her , " Cassie explained . She 'd contacted her family , needing financial help . Grief -- stricken , dealing with the aftermath of her husband 's sudden death , Sandra Judson , Cassie 's mother , had asked Karen and Nichole to answer Cassie 's plea . According to Karen , who spoke for both her and Nichole , neither sister was financially able to help . Karen 's husband had gone through a period of unemployment and they were barely making it . And Nichole had recently married and was n't in a position to be lending anyone money . The bottom line was that Cassie had made her own bed and it was up to her to climb out of it . 
