The children were seated across the aisle from one another , the boys on the left and the girls on the right , and each was given a set of junior airman wings , which only Cal refused to wear . They were glad to be on the plane , glad to be free of direct supervision for six hours . As much as they hated to leave their mother - they were unquestionably loyal to their mother - the four Cousins children thought of themselves as Virginians , even the youngest two , who had been born after the family 's move west . All of the Cousins children hated California . They were sick of being shoved down the hallways of the Torrance Unified School District . They were sick of the bus that picked them up on the corner every morning , and sick of the bus driver who would not cut them a break , even thirty seconds , if they were made late by Albie 's dawdling . Now she would be late for work . She went over it all again in the car as she drove them to school at terrifying speeds - she had to work , they could n't live on what their father gave them , she could n't afford to lose this job just because they were n't responsible enough to walk to the goddamn corner on time . They blocked her out by pinching Albie , whose screams filled the car like mustard gas . More than anything they were sick of Albie , who had spilled his Coke all over the place and was at this very moment kicking the seat in front of him on the plane . Everything that happened was his fault . But they were sick of Cal too . He got to wear the house key on a dirty string around his neck because their mother told him it was his job to get everybody home after school and make them a snack . There was a hose on the side of the house and shade beneath the carport . It was n't like they were going to die . When their mother came home from work they met her at the door screaming about the tyranny of their situation . They lied about having done their homework , except for Holly , who always did her homework , sometimes sitting Indian-style under the carport with her books in her lap , because she lived for the positive reinforcement her teachers heaped on her . They were sick of Holly and the superiority of her good grades . Really , the only person they were n't sick of was Jeanette , and that was because they never thought about her . She had retreated into a silence that any parent would have asked a teacher or a pediatrician about had they noticed it , but no one noticed . Jeanette was sick of that . They reclined their seats as far back as they could go . 
TWO HOUSES 1999-2000 The Door WHERE THE RESERVATION boundary invisibly bisected a stand of deep brush - chokecherry , popple , stunted oak - Landreaux waited . He said he was not drinking , and there was no sign later . Landreaux was a devout Catholic who also followed traditional ways , a man who would kill a deer , thank one god in English , and put down tobacco for another god in Ojibwe . He was married to a woman even more devout than he , and had five children , all of whom he tried to feed and keep decent . His neighbor , Peter Ravich , had a big farm cobbled together out of what used to be Indian allotments ; he tilled the corn , soy , and hay fields on the western edge . He and Landreaux and their wives , who were half sisters , traded : eggs for ammo , rides to town , kids ' clothing , potatoes for flour - that sort of thing . Ravich thought that something would happen , but not what did happen . Landreaux had kept track of the buck all summer , waiting to take it , fat , until just after the corn was harvested . As always , he 'd give a portion to Ravich . The buck had regular habits and had grown comfortable on its path . It would wait and watch through midafternoon . Then would venture out before dusk , crossing the reservation line to browse the margins of Ravich 's fields . Now it came , stepping down the path , pausing to take scent . Landreaux was downwind . The buck turned to peer out at Ravich 's cornfield , giving Landreaux a perfect shot . He was extremely adept , had started hunting small game with his grandfather at the age of seven . Only when he walked forward to investigate and looked down did he understand that he had killed his neighbor 's son . Landreaux did n't touch the boy 's body . He dropped his rifle and ran through the woods to the door of the Ravich house , a tan ranch with a picture window and a deck . When Nola opened the door and saw Landreaux trying to utter her son 's name , she went down on her knees and pointed upstairs , where he was - but was n't . She had just checked , found him gone , and was coming out to search for him when she heard the shot . She tried to stay on her hands and knees . Then she heard Landreaux on the phone , telling the dispatcher what had happened . He dropped the phone when she tried to bolt out the door . Landreaux got his arms around her . She did n't make it out the door , but soon she saw the paramedics sprinting across the field . The ambulance lurching slowly after , down the grassy tractor path to the woods . She screamed some terrible things at Landreaux , things she could not remember . The tribal police were there . She knew them . Execute him ! Execute the son of a bitch ! she shouted . Once Peter arrived and talked to her , she understood - the medics had tried but it was over . Peter explained . His lips moved but she could n't hear the words . He was too calm , she thought , her mind ferocious , too calm . She wanted her husband to bludgeon Landreaux to death . She saw it clearly . Though she was a small , closed-up woman who had never done harm in her life , she wanted blood everlasting . Her ten-year-old daughter had been ill that morning , stayed home from school . Still feverish , she came down the stairs and crept into the room . Quietly , the daughter took the toys out of the box and laid them here and there . Her mother saw them and knelt down suddenly , put the toys away . She spoke harshly to her daughter . Can you not make a mess ? Is it in you to not make a mess ? When the toys were back in she started screaming again . The daughter took the toys out . The mother slammed them into the toy box . Every time her mother crouched down and picked up the toys , the grown-ups looked away and talked loudly to cover her words . The girl 's name was Maggie , after her great-aunt Maggie Peace . The girl had pale luminous skin and her hair was chestnut brown - it lay on her shoulders in a sly wave . Dusty 's hair had been a scorched blond , the same color as the deer . The acting tribal police chief , Zack Peace , and the county coroner , an eighty-two-year-old retired nurse named Georgie Mighty , were already overwhelmed . The day before , there had been a frontal collision at 2:30 a.m. , just after the bars closed - none of the dead in either car were wearing seat belts . The state coroner was traveling in the area , and stopped at the reservation to expedite the paperwork . Zack had been struggling with this side of things when the call about Dusty came in . He paused to put his head on the desk before he called Georgie , who would persuade the coroner to stay a few more hours and examine the child so that the family could have an immediate funeral . Now Zack had to call Emmaline . As cousins , they 'd grown up together . He was trying to hold his tears back . He was too young for his job , and anyway too good-hearted to be a tribal cop . She 'd come home to meet them . Emmaline stepped to the door and watched her older children get off the bus . They walked toward the house with their heads down , hands flapping at the grasses as they crossed the ditch , and she knew they had also heard . Hollis , who 'd lived with them since he was little , Snow , Josette , Willard . Nobody on the reservation gets a name like Willard and does n't pick up a nickname . So Willard was Coochy . Now her youngest boy was stumbling down to meet them , LaRose . He was the same age as Nola 's boy . They 'd been pregnant at the same time , but Emmaline had gone to the Indian Health Service hospital . Three months had passed before she 'd met Nola 's baby . But the two boys , cousins , had played together . Emmaline put out sandwiches , heated the meat soup . What happens now ? Her forehead was raw . When she 'd knelt to pray she 'd found herself beating her head against the floor - and now fear was leaking out of her in every direction . I do n't know , she said . I 'm going down to tribal police and sit with your dad . It was such ... Emmaline was going to say a terrible accident but she clapped her hands over her mouth and tears spurted down , wetting her collar , for what was there to say about what had happened - an unsayable thing - and Emmaline did not know how she or Landreaux or anyone , especially Nola , was going to go on living . Minute by minute , a day passed , two . Zack came over , sat on the couch , running his hand over his brushy hair . Watch him , he said . You got ta watch him , Emmaline. From LaRose by Louise Erdrich Copyright c 2016 by Louise Erdrich . Reprinted courtesy of Harper , an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers . 
