No member of the Order of the Galactic Eye has ever gone down there , because we ca n't , but I doubt than any of us would if we could . Destiny is that to which one may aspire and therefore a potential choice , but fate is what is written in one 's stars . Or in our case in our DNA . Written there by those down below who built the Galactic Eye centuries ago and created us to serve , maintain , and guide it to see what was written in the stars for our civilization and perhaps for sentient civilizations everywhere . To our faces , we are the Order of the Galactic Eye , but to each other , they call us the ' ' Bats . " The original bats were the only true flying mammals to have evolved on the home world of Homo sapiens , winged creatures that could fly through the atmosphere of Earth defying its gravitational field and hung upside down in its planetary caverns . For we are never to know the restraint of any gravitational field within which we could not survive . Our generations arc cloned from genomes designed to survive and thrive in zero gravity to serve the Galactic Eye , because the earlier astronomers and crews brought up from below did not . We begin life as extrauterine embryos and are brought to coasciousness some two years later as preadolescent children and from there raised and educated like so-called " natural born humans . " But despite having been created to be brothers and sisters in an Order of the Galactic Eye , in deliberate homage or sardonic reference to the ancient orders of sworn celibates , we are not neutered creatures . Our sexuality has been separated from the possibility of accidental production of " natural born humans , " in order to keep our population no greater than the thousand Bats needed to serve the great purpose of the Eye . Designed to live long and thrive here at minimal cost to the Ecliptics down below . And live long we do , for longer than those in thrall to the various gravitational fields below . As for thriving , who is to say what that can mean to not entirely human exiles from the civilization below that created us to serve the greatest cause our species has ever known . Early human civilizations believed that their planet was the one and only center of a universe created for us by one or more omnipotent or at least superhuman entities , and xenoanthropologists have theorized that this must be the case wherever sentience arises from mindless matter ; being from nothingness . When extrasolar biospheres had been detected and tantalizing hints of civilizations on some dozen or so of them , it was decided to embark on the greatest construction project in the history of our species to learn our destiny in the galaxy , the fate of sentient civilizations therein , and seek out our own place among them . The Galactic Eye . Half a dozen graphene photon collectors , each kilometers in diameter , then a score , then several score , more and more as the network continued to expand , forming a whole far more powerful than its far-flung parts . Built a hundred astronomic astronomical units " above " the ecliptic plane of our solar system and motionlessly centered in line with the rotational axis of our sun and therefore stationary in regard to the whirling swirling of the vast complexities of the systemwide Ecliptic civilization " below . " The Order and the Eye above and the Ecliptics below , because though " above " and " below " Are we less than fully human because we been have been created to serve our mission with compulsory dedication ? Or are we superior to the Ecliptics down below because having been granted the singular passion to look up and out and not back and down is a precious gift ? Creatures of destiny or prisoners of fate ? A narrow and local version of the question that conscious beings everywhere must be asking themselves . Have even civilizations millennia in advance of ourselves learned the answer ? Ultimately , is that not what we have been created to find out ? By the time of my youth , the Eye had already discovered some score of extrasolar civilizations , the less advanced ones by the tell-tale lights on planetary bodies , the more advanced , perhaps in stages similar to our own , showing artificial habitats in precise orbits reaching out beyond the gas giant range , and within a thousand light-years , civilizations of sentient beings would seem to be almost a tenth or so as common in the galaxy as a whole as the stars themselves . What grand revelation for the human race ! Yes , we were not alone , and if some scores of civilizations had been already clearly and definitively detected within the Galactic Eye 's effective global range , of less hope and glory for the Ecliptic civilization below ! For we were the heroes of the age , looked up to as the visionary forefront of our species , looking up and out and bringing the grand revelations down from on high . I was brought to consciousness as Marco 31 , the thirty-first iteration of the Marco genome , designed with a tendency and ability toward intellectual and theoretical pursuits , and suitable to selecting sectors of search for more civilization-bearing solar systems , interpreting the discoveries of the Eye and packaging them for transmission down below , and so forth . But there are always tiresome quotidian tasks that of course must be performed , such as keeping the life support systems running properly , overseeing-and when necessary repairing-the fusion torches , keeping the spheres clean and tidy , and the like . So one might say that the Order of the Eye is a species of benign gerontocracy . So for my first two decades and more , I was more or less content to perform such duties while awaiting a call to heed , though I can not claim that I had no impatience to join in the excitement as true participant . More and more extrasolar civilizations were being discovered , so that the mere ever-increasing number count was beginning to be taken as boringly irrelevant down below , much as the discovery of more and more extrasolar biospheres in an earlier age , and more and more extrasolar planets in the so-called " Golden Age of Astronomy " before that . Inspectors from the clade of political and financial entities down below that had financed the building of the Galactic Eye and were financing its continued operation , arrived but rarely to assert their interests and demands , almost always naive and unrealistic , and always complaining about the discomforts and difficulties of lack of gravity . What the Ecliptics were now demanding- or at any rate , this Carla Wing Destry who I was chosen to chaperon-was more focused exploration of these extrasolar civilizations themselves and particularly those more advanced than our own . What could we learn from them and how ? What was the nature of this galaxy-wide brotherhood of sentient beings ? How were we to find our place in it ? It was not so much that the Ecliptics were dissatisfied with what the Order had already achieved , but that it had whetted their appetite for much much more . We of the Order however were more cognizant of the difficulties and limitations . Make her as comfortable as possible and try to find out what this rare visit is really about . Carla Wing Destry , I was told , was no economic overseer , rather a politically well-connected " theoretical galactic sociologist , " " I did not drag my brittle old bones all the way up here just to enjoy the zero gravity , Marko 31 , which I do not at all enjoy , " Carla Wing Destry fairly snarled upon awkwardly both tumbling and flying out of the Council Sphere in an obviously ireful mood , " and certainly not to be treated like a feeble crone in her dotage while being patronized like a dimwitted child at the same time , " You must realize that hardly any of the Domini have ever met an ... Ecliptic before , " I told her soothingly . " To us you seem both ancient and young-as strange to us as we seem to you . Almost as if we were two different species . " " Almost ? Almost ? You think we are not ? This is not speciation ? " This was the oldest and frailest human I had ever seen , though not even two centuries old as age was counted down below and less than half a lifetime to us . We provided her with a habitat with rotational gravity , but she complained that the spin made her nauseous and detested having to wear the void suits necessary to pass from one sphere to another and was quite clumsy in controlling their propulsers. Yet these complaints seemed to me to be superficial masking of the existential despair that those down below must experience when confronting beings who would outlive them by centuries , and especially those like Carla Wing Destry nearing the end of their shorter lifespans , with their immanent deaths hovering over their head like the legendary Swotd of Damocles. " You envy our extended lifespans , do you not ? " " Of course we do , who would n't ? " she freely admitted . " Do we not ? " " As you must know , I have never before met an Ecliptic. " " As you call us . And like virtually all Ecliptics , I have never before encountered Bats-as we call you-and I must say that I am finding the experience quite exasperating . Though quite fascinating from the point of view of view of a galactic sociologist- " " Not an ... astronomer ? " That is the physical study of the inhabitable planets and habitats that the Galactic Eye discovers , not the societies of their inhabitants-of which you tell us nothing . " We were crossing over from the Council Sphere to the habitat where she was quartered . Directly above , the shimmery sheen of the Galactic Eye itself masked a broad portion of the starscape . But in every other direction save downward to the ecliptic , we were engulfed in the brilliant star field that went on and on into apparent infinity . " How can you say that ? We 've discovered nearly two hundred extrasolar civilizations and still counting ! " " But we have never encountered another sentient species , now have we ? And I am now realizing that the Order of the Eye is the closest thing to another sentient species that we have yet encountered . " Carla Wing Destry braked and turned off her propulser , forcing me to do likewise , and we hung there motionless together . With a waving arm , she directed my gaze upward to the Eye , then waved both arms full circle as if to embrace the globe of the starscape entire . " Two hundred now , perhaps even three hundred while I yet live , perhaps a thousand during your lifetime , and what do we really know ? That they are there . But what do we really know of all or even any of our fellow sentient beings ? Nothing ! " " Nothing ! How can you call all that nothing ? " " Do we know what they look like ? Do we have the least idea of their cultures ? Their life spans ? Their relations with each other , or if they even have them , and if so how ? Which , if any , should we fear ? Which , if any , would embrace us ? The nature of galactic-wide culture itself , if there is one ? .. " " And then what ? " " Then what indeed ! What is the next level ? What is the nature of overall galactic civilization ? How do the most advanced civilizations react with each other ? Do they ? If so , how ? If not , why ? " " Interpretation of the data is not the mis- sion of the Order , " I told her , though I was beginning to wonder . We were created with a specific mission , certainly , and with certain psychological patterns and emotions . Perhaps she was right , and we were a different species . But certainly we were sentient . Were we really created to be free of generalized curiosity ? " That is more or less what your Dominis Council told me ! " Carla Wing Destry said . " .. a threat . " " That 's what the Council said too . Call it what you will , Marco 31 , but my mission is to expand the mission of the Order of the Galactic Eye , and that I will do by whatever means necessary . " " The reading of what the Galactic Eye sees , not as a mere accumulation of data , but as- " " The creation of a true science of galactic sociology . There you have it ! " " A mighty task to be set to " " The greatest task that ever there was , that ever there can be ! And one that I know full well I wo n't live to see fully achieved . Perhaps you will , Marco 31 , but not I. But one must begin . Two centuries , four , a millennium , each life begins a story , knowing it can never be there for its end . Coasidering the dire alternative ... " Emotions were raised within me that 1 did n't know 1 could have . That I could become something more than what I had believed I was created to be . That the Order was created to be . Surely the true mission of the Order of the Galactic Eye would never be entirely fulfilled by the mere discovery and counting of more and more examples of enigmatic extrasolar civilizations . The Ecliptics created us as a tool , but were we not conscious beings ? And with that thought the desire was born within me to somehow serve that higher mission . For , whether those who had created us centuries ago understood it or not , was it not in the end the mission which the Order of the Galactic Eye had been created to pursue ? " I believe I understand , " I told Carla Wing Destry . " " " Assuming that it has one , " I found myself blurting. " What ? " " We can not see the present of any civilization we discover , let alone their futures . We can not even know which still exist . " " How so ? " Carla Wing Destry said , focusing her considerable full attention on me . I gestured toward the great Galactic Eye itself . " The Galactic Eye ca n't see the present , let alone the future-only the past . Only images from far away traveling at the speed of light reach it , and thus are from the past . And the deeper into the Galaxy it peers , the greater the time-lag between what we see in our now and what presently exists in their now . " If anything , her gaze became even more intent as she spoke . " .. " " Or already long gone . " " Long gone ? ' ' " Very long ago , before our civilization had even colonized our home world 's moon , " I reminded her , " it was realized that technological civilization must arrive at a transformation crisis when it became possible to destroy itself , via nuclear war , or the terminal destruction of the biosphere , or the depletion of fossil fuels before they could be replaced . " " Or things then unknown ... " " Or even destroyed by things still unknown . " " Indeed , Marco 31 , those civilizations that passed through the transformation crisis could survive to become long-term , solar-systemwide cultures . " " Our civilization and what the Eye has seen elsewhere ... " " But perhaps to face a greater existential crisis we have yet to experience or even detect elsewhere as yet , " Are gone . " " So what we see are either ghosts of long-gone civilizations or the pasts of those which may have become what we can not now even hope to comprehend . " " Perhaps not , Marco 31 . We can do more than hope to comprehend . " " With your true science of galactic sociology " Carla Wing Destry nodded . " I 'm not going to let this arduous and unpleasant journey up here end in futility , " she told me. " How so ? " " Look down towards the ecliptic . What do you see ? " I looked down , and what I saw was the brilliance of the sun we call Sol surrounded by pinpoints of light no different from the galactic vista otherwise surrounding us save that they were more concentrated . " Nothing of great visual significance .... " " What I see is human civilization entire , " Carla Wing Destry told me . " What I see that you do not is its richness and chaotic complexity . Planets , moons , habitats , asteroids , reaching out into the Oort Cloud , and each in its way , to one degree , or another , a culture . Time was this would have been-and was-a recipe for strife , but now it is a mosaic of our glory . Once there was a multiplex culture whose motto was E pluribus Unum . Out of the many , a higher unity . And that is what the human species has now achieved . " She looked at the Galactic Eye , and I looked up with her . " I came up here because that multiplex human community is in danger of fraying , " she told me . " Perhaps that is currently something of an overstatement , but the danger is there . " " The Ecliptics have become bored with what the Order is doing ? " " Yes and no . Further increasing the count of civilizations is no longer of general interest , but the mysteries of galactic civilization as a whole has become an obsession . Hardly any literature , dramatic , or visual art is about anything else . Worship , that ancient neurosis , of imagined superior beings , is running rampart . As is fears of alien invasions . " " Surely you realize both are quite ridiculous . The nearest extraterrestrial civilization is a score of light-years away , and no interstellar traffic anywhere has ever been detected . " " But why , Marko 31 ? " " Obviously because either the Galactic Eye can not detect something as small as a starship or because no such thing exists . " " Throughout the Galaxy ? " " " Now you are speaking like your hidebound Domini Council ! " Carla Wing Destry exclaimed angrily . " Two hundred extrasolar civilizations are quite enough to be a statistically significant sample . Another hundred or even thousand more would be statistically meaningless . " " I think I 'm beginning to understand , " I told her , and indeed I was . " The Order is still doing what it had been created to do centuries ago . What we had been programmed to do in our very genomes . And that mission has long since been successfully completed ! " " There you have it , Marko 31 ! Unlike your navel-gazing Council ! If we were n't in void suits , I would hug and kiss you . " " And the Council rejected it . " " Would you , Marko 31 ? " " Me ? " " The Domini might not have to listen to scientific reason , but they will find that they can not fail to listen to political and economic reason . The Order in the end is financed by the collectivity of what you call the Ecliptic , and I have been equipped with what was once and still is called plenipotentiary power , believe me , I saw to that . " " Which means what ? " " Which means I can and will endow your Order with the gift of financing a Dominia of Galactic Sociology , and in return for this largesse that ca n't be rejected , they must grant it a minor but significant slice of Eye time to pursue galactic sociology 's purpose . " " You can really do that ? " " Do you understand what I 'm saying ? " I did , but I could hardly believe it . " Me ? You can really do that ? " Carla Wing Destry just nodded . " But why me ? I 'm not yet even recognized as a mature adult .... " " All the better as far as I 'm concerned after trying to tell your adult Domini Council what they could n't understand but you could . . . " " Just like that ? " " Just like that Will you accept ? " " How could I not ? " " I understand that now you must choose a mature name . " " This is so ... " " Have you chosen ? " " I have not yet thought of one . " " Then allow me to impose one upon you as I impose your life 's work upon you . " " As an ancient myth goes , there was a prince who demanded of a deity the unmasking of ultimate reality fearing not to face it . The deity at first refused , telling him that no mere human was ready to see such a thing and never would be . But the prince was not dissuaded . And as he was not , so must you not be . . . . His name was Arjuna . Dare you take it as your own ? " " I would be honored , " I told her . " So you say now ... Dominus Arjuna. " For several decades , the Dominia of Galactic Sociology was looked down upon by the Domini Council as the political and economic necessity imposed on the Order by the Ecliptics that it was , and I was looked askance as Carla Wing Destry 's underling while she yet lived , which I more or less was . So whether the Domini Council liked it or not , it was the work of the Dominia of Galactic Sociology that had succeeded in preserving Ecliptic interest in what the they considered the central mission of the Order of the Galactic Eye but which the Ecliptic culture down below had begun to regard as boringly pointless and therefore still protected by her legacy . And was I not truly her intellectual successor ? More technological civilizations had been detected since I had become Dominus Arjuna of the Dominia of Galactic Sociology , but what did it really matter ? Statistically meaningless numerological coop counting , as Carla Wing Destry had put it to me . It told us little or nothing about the nature of galactic civilization itself , about the interaction among those hundreds of civilizations , let alone the thousands or even millions of them that mathematical extrapolation told us must be there in the deeper beyond . And that must be what any civilizations of sentients must demand to know , must it not ? What is the true and ultimate fate of mind arising from matter ? What is the destiny of consciousness in this universe ? Answering those questions was the mission of the Dominia of Galactic Sociology , and that was what was demanded of us , if not by the Domini Council , then by our civilization as a whole . Our task must be to reduce such philosophical speculation to a verifiable science . We were few but enough to do what was required . A crew to operate the Galactic Eye when we had control of it . Myself , and Alexandria . Alexandria 's genome emphasized mathematical skill and interest , and she had begun merely as our statistical historical archivist , but over the decades after Carla Wing Destry 's departure , she had evolved into an elusive something more . She had chosen her name in homage not to an historical or mythical personage but to the library of Alexandria , a very ancient archive whose then massive treasure trove of knowledge had been destroyed and lost by human folly . Her advanced mission became to seek out hidden patterns in what the Eye had already accumulated over the centuries , which , far from being destroyed , had become a vast and formless archive of mere data , to turn this all but useless chaotic data heap into the basis for a real science of galactic sociology sufficient to thereby give focus to what we would seek when we had its usage . " It was once written that all civilizations have blind spots in their understanding , and it is usually something central and seems retrospectively obvious once it is finally revealed , " she finally told me . " Ours is equating distance from our solar system in light-years with the age of observed galactic civilizations and therefore with their levels of technological development . Wrong . I have found no such correlation . " " What ? How can that be ? Each light-year of distance from us must mean we are looking at civilizations as they were a year in their past ! This is fundamental physics ! When we observe a civilization five hundred light-years from us that seems on our technological level it must be really be half a millennium beyond us in its current present or devolved or extinct . " " That has been our blind spot . " " But galactic stellar evolution- " " True that in terms of stellar evolutionary time , measured in billions of years , the solar systems in our local galactic arm have evolved more or less simultaneously but in terms of historical evolution of civilizations , measured in mere millions of years or even just millennia , not at all . Some advanced civilizations we have observed would have evolved millions of years before our own , others only thousands or even only centuries . " " No overall galactic evolutionary pattern ? " " There is a clear evolutionary pattern , but it has nothing to do with a galactic level time frame or when a civilization began to evolve within it . .. " " And beyond that .. what ? Civilizations encompassing many solar systems . . . ? A galac tic commonality ? " " Among the hundreds of civilizations we have observed , no such civilizations have been discovered . It is statistically clear that all galactic civilizations at any technical level remain isolates. " " Surely this is just speculation- " " Surely it is not , Dominus Arjuna. " What was I to do ? I had been well-schooled in the science of political reality by Carla Wing Destry to not to know that if I presented this so-called statistically proven scientific observation to the Council , the Domini Council might very well use it to dissolve the Dominia of Galactic Sociology , if only to prevent it from being used by the powers down below to dissolve the Order of the Galactic Eye itself , blaming the messenger for the dismal news . " We must keep this to ourselves , Alexandria , until- " " Until what ? " Worse still , it is the proven truth . " " Perhaps it is not . It is very difficult to prove a negative , after all , is it not ? We must use our time on the Eye to observe only the most advanced civilizations yet discovered and the environs around them , for if there is evidence of any multi-solar system civilizations , that is where we would find it . " " We wo n't , " Alexandria insisted . " We must try , " I told her , but even then I knew that it was prevarication. And so we did . And so we didn't. There were civilizations that filled their solar systems and ventured out beyond their heliospheres even as we were doing . There were civilizations that had reshaped their solar systems . There were two that seemed to be englobing their suns . Nothing at all moved among any of these most advanced galactic civilizations in our neighborhtxKl . In futile desperation , we even sought out hints of interstellar travel among the less advanced , knowing there it would be futile . The Arjuna of the Bhagavad Gita had demanded of the avatar Krishna to re-veal to him the full face of ultimate universal reality . Krishna had tried to talk him out it , telling Arjuna he would wish he had n't if he did it , but at length shrugged and reluctanti ) ' relented . That Arjuna did not at all like what he saw revealed and neither did I. We were reluctantly confirming a reality that we ourselves had no wish to verify to either the Domini Council or our Ecliptic sponsors . A reality so depressing and yet so obvious in retrospect that it had been our civilization 's deepest and darkest blind spot . A self-created blind spot willfully hidden in plain sight for centuries . And it was why all those civilizations , our own , and what lay beyond , had never sent emissaries or exploratory expeditions to each other and never would . Einstein 's implacable equations isolated us all . The speed of light was an absolute limit that could never be exceeded . The Council Sphere was transparent with no lecterns , screens , other impediments , or sigils of hierarchy , and up or down . The dozen Domini were surrounded by the star speckled void but could ordinarily float with whatever orientation each Dominus chose . Now , however , they were all hovering in a circle around the equator of the sphere with myself and Alexandria in its center . " Having been Dominus for a more than a respectable century now , during which I had ignored most all Council politics that did not directly effect my own Dominia and being in higher favor down below than any of them , I had long since ceased to be considered a callow nuisance imposed upon them but rather a nuisance whose status was propped up by the Ecliptics , but whose status down below was grudgingly regarded as useful to the Order . So when I asked to address the full Council , which was seldom , I could hardly be refused , and such a rare event brought unusually intent though wary interest . " And as Dominus of the Dominia of Galactic Sociology , invite my colleague Alexandria to speak for me and report our findings . " While this was not without precedence , it was unusual and as such was greeted with a palpably expectant stillness and silence . " I had told her to do this , and it was n't that far from her normal mode of discourse . " Any and all economies and their technologies are ultimately limited by its availability . " The silence was broken by groans. " Tell us something we do n't all know , " said Dominus Lustigus. " I was about to , " Alexandra said evenly but coldly . " Mass increases with acceleration approaching the speed of light as a limit where it becomes infinite . Therefore to exceed the speed of light would require a transfinite amount of energy , which is inherently impossible . " " Is she ever going to come to the reason for this meeting ? " the First Dominus demanded . I did n't answer . I just motioned for Alexandria to continue . " " The First Dominus gave me a jaundiced look . " I do hope you have not requested this Council meeting just to insult us with a lesson in elementary physics , Dominus Arjuna. " This was how I had planned it . The implacable equation from Alexandria and the implacable Galactic Sociology from me. " What this means is that interstellar travel even below light speed is therefore both unaffordable in energy cost and temporally impractical , " I told them . I waited until the gasps became an awful silence . " This has been scientifically proven and known for centuries and yet steadfastly refused to be accepted culturally . Wormholes , detours through fantastic realities , timewarps , mystical quantum physics , a vast and ancient dramatic form calling itself science fiction , indeed the dominant fictional form down there in the Ecliptic even now . For any civilization . Anywhere in this universe . Forever . " " This can not be ! " " This must not be ! " I ignored the shouts of denial and despair . " Which is why , among three hundred civilizations , many of which appear to have energy sources far exceeding our own , it has never been observed . Because it does not exist . " " Because according to the cold equations of mass , energy , and ultimate economics , for all practical purposes , it can not exist , " said Alexandria . Were there a pin and even the slightest gravity in the Council Sphere , in the perfect silence , one could hear it drop . " I told the Council . " And we are hardly the first to have proved it . It has been definitively known since the equations of Albert Einstein . We have only presented the unavoidable observational proof . " " Only ! " " Next will you tell us it is written in the stars ? " said Dominus Galileo. " In the implacable laws of mass and energ ) in this universe which we , and all beings of sentient consciousness , find ourselves , like it or not , " said Alexandria . " And what are we to do with this most unwelcome knowledge ? " demanded the First Dominus. " That is why I requested this Council meeting , " I told the assembled Domini . " That is clearly a decision that is not mine alone to make . " " So you pass it off on us ! " There was a long despairing and angry silence before the First Dominus finally spoke again . " " Which in the end will probably prove impossible- " " -or we do what we 're bound to do by the mandate of our Order as is written in our very genomes , which is to announce everything we discover without subjective judgment . " " So our free will in this most existential decision our Order has ever had to make is an illusion . " " And the results to the Order of the Galactic Eye ? " " We are not likely to be hailed as heroes , " the First Dominus said dryly. " Might it not even turn the Ecliptics against us ? " " Might they even shut us down ? " " Poison the forward and outward looking Zeitgeist of our species ? " " Leading to cultural devolution ? " " Or even ultimate extinction ? " Politics , the ancients said centuries ago , is the art of the possible . In truth not much good was possible here , but the ancients also understood that the perfect was the enemy of the good , and it was the best I could do under the circumstances . " There is good scientific reason to believe that this revelation may at least not be as terminally grave as it might seem , " I told them , at least momentarily transforming the uproar into silence long enough to speak into it . " Consider what else the data must mean . Some hundred civilizations more advanced than ourselves . Surely those at least must know and understand what we know now And not only have we found no evidence of a civilization which has destroyed itself or devolved from a previously higher evolutionary ' level , but we have proof positive that many civilizations have passed through this existential crisis and evolved far beyond it . " " " " So we present the Ecliptics with the entire truth . Which is that while the fate of sentient civilizations in this universe may not be to the liking of any of us , consciousness would seem to have a destiny , and there are beings out there presently more evolved than ourselves who lived long and continued to evolve after knowing it . " " Next you will tell us how to sell feces as flowers , Arjuna. " " It does fertilize their growth , " I rejoined dryly There was a certain wan amount of relieved laughter . " I do believe you will succeed me as First Dominus , " that current personage declared not dryly at all . " I do believe that has been your purpose . " " Nothing could be further from the truth , " I declared honestly . " I have never wanted to be anything but Dominus of the Dominia of Galactic Sociology . " " Perhaps that is true , " said First Dominus Confucius . " You may really have no interest in succeeding me , but you do have a duty . You seem found of ancient maxims , so here is one for you : to save a life is to become responsible for it . And if the Order is to be saved , you have at least temporarily done it , Arjuna. " This was greeted with nods , and even a few cheers , of assent . Mine was not among them . " I do not envy you , Arjuna , " said my-predecessor-to-be . " I doubt that you will preside over a golden era. " And just as slowly , we of the Dominia of Galactic Sociology began to apply what we had learned of the sociology of the galactic social order , namely that it did not and could not exist as anything like a monoculture , to the multiple and multiplex cultures of the Ecliptics , and that to certain degree the stabilizing situation in our single solar system was similar to the galactic multiplexity writ small . Up to a point . Hundreds of extrasolar civilizations with no contact with each other . Nearly two hundred billion humans living in thousands of diverse habitats , natural or artificial , each a culture of its own , with more diversity among them , at least to human perception , than among those mere hundred of extrasolar civilizations of whose arts , sciences , histories , biologies , consciousnesses we knew nothing and never would . But there the similarity ended . For our thousands of diverse human cultures were not isolated from each other . Far from it , they endlessly interacted , merged , broke apart , cross-fertilized , and even began once more to creep slowly toward the dead planets of nearby Centaurus in self-contained mobile habitats that might take a century to reach them and a millennium to terraform them , assuming there would be any impetus to do that at all . Thus perhaps the Age of Human Maturity that might not be a devolved destiny after all but a dynamically stable destiny that could last for millions of years albeit in glorious galactic isolation like all the others . Philosophies and religions rising and dissolving through the millennia . Art forms and literatures . The total mastery of the laws of mass and energy . Ever expanding lifespans approaching immortality as a limit . We continued to be financed but at ever diminishing levels , and fewer and fewer of us were cloned to replace those whose life spans expired , and there was serious consideration of letting the Order fade away honorably by servicing our slowly dwindling numbers with robotics until the last of us aged out . We had become a nostalgic relic of a bygone era , like the monastery orders of yore copying holy texts with pen and ink long after the invention of the printing press , and it seemed that my historic destiny might be to die as Arjuna , the last First Dominus of the Order of the Galactic Eye . And as I aged closer and closer to that ending , I myself began to wonder if that might not be , if not a good thing , but the appropriate thing . And so , perhaps because the former Dominus of the Dominia of Galactic Sociology had long since become the First Dominus of our dwindling Order , or perhaps because we really had nothing else to do , we too turned inward . Theoretical galactic sociology became more and more central to us as our aging and dwindling numbers became more and more irrelevant to the Ecliptics enjoying their dynamic maturity down below . We developed a theory to explain why even the most advanced and mature galactic civilizations did not seek to send even nonmaterial messages to each other though the technology to do so was readily available and the energy cost modest . For the light speed limit also applied to the transmission of massless data , so it would take decades or centuries or millennia to send a simple greeting and receive even simple acknowledgment , rendering meaningful conversation eternally impossible . Such was the inescapable fate of civilizations in this galaxy and no doubt in any other . They could only continue to evolve internally to turn this fate into the self-chosen destiny of consciousness or expire . This realization would be the last legacy of the Order of the Galactic Eye to the human species . And indeed it was accepted as the inevitable by those of the Ecliptic who still pondered such matters . This was the destiny of consciousness within the restrictions of the implacable laws of the universe in which it found itself until the last sun burned out . And in the face thereof , the only possible wisdom was to accept it . Or so it was thought by the Bats above and the Ecliptics below . And by Arjuna , fated to be the Last First Dominus of the Order of the Galactic Eye . Or so I thought . " What is this secrecy all about , Sagan ? " " I will show you , " he said The Control Sphere was girdled wide around its equator with vision screens , holo projectors , individual control consoles for each independent facet of the Eye and always occupied by a crew of some dozen . But now there was no one in it but its Dominus and myself . Normally I was accustomed to regard the Eye as " up " and the Ecliptic as " down , " but Dominus Sagan did something with his finger and the Control Sphere turned upside down , with the Eye below and the galactic vista above The total effect was quite disturbing . Dominus Sagan did another something with his finger , and the hemisphere above revealed itself as a screen by simplifying itself . Dominus Sagan said as a bright blue dot appeared moving through the starscape . Moving very slowly but moving in a steady clear line nonetheless . " What is that ? " " That , " said Dominus Sagan , " is a massive object that has entered the Eye 's globe of vision moving in a deliberate are at approximately 1S percent of the speed of light . " " You are sure ? " " We have checked , double-checked , and triple-checked . The Eye is functioning perfectly . The blueshift is real , it has been measured , and it is unmistakable . " How massive ? " " Roughly the mass of a major asteroid or the largest habitat ever built ... that we have ever built ... but ... " " But what ? " " But its diameter is that of a major Jovian moon . .. Do you realize what that means ? " " It 's hollow ? " " And I did . I understood that this was the most important discovery ever made at least since the first confirmation of the existence of an extrasolar civilization eons ago . Perhaps even in all of human history . " It has to be a manufactured artifact , does n't it ? " Dominus Sagan nodded again . " It can be nothing else . A hollow artifact the size of a moon has entered our galactic neighborhood . " " From where ? " Dominus Sagan shrugged . " Currently impossible to tell . In a decade or so , assuming it follows the present steady vector , we may be able to extrapolate backward . " " Where is it headed ? " " Again too early to tell , we can not even yet tell whether it is holding a steady course , in a few decades perhaps- " " How far away ? " Dominus Sagan frowned . " A difficult calculation . " A rough estimate ! " I demanded . " Call it something like nine hundred lightyears then . " " How many people know of this ? " " Only myself and the crew that discovered this , First Dominus , and they have been ordered to remain silent . I thought it prudent to inform you alone first rather than make it known widely myself or report it to the collectivity of the Council since you are well known to be more skilled in delivering the news of such discoveries to the Ecliptics to the maximum benefit of the Order than anyone else , let alone a Council consensus . And this ... this ... this presented properly will preserve the Order from extinction at least for a millennium , will it not , Arjuna ? " " Indeed it will , and then some , Sagan , " I told him . " You have done well . " " And the Eye and the Order will be vital to observe it for the next thousand years or more . " " And restore the Order to the front and center of human civilization , looking forward once more from the prow of human destiny . " And myself from the sad fate of being remembered as the last First Dominus of the vanished Order of the Galactic Eye . Happenstance would cause history to remember me as its savior. And so the Galactic Eye was indeed thrust into the center of a civilization that swiftly turned its back on the instantly obsoleted Age of Human Maturity and suddenly found itself in what soon enough began to be called the Damoclean Age , for the inescapable feet was that the approaching mysterious unknown and essentially unknowable and therefore unnameable bolide would hang above it like the sword hanging over the head of the mythical Damocles by a fragile hair for centuries , for generations . We would all die in frustrating ignorance and knowing that was our inescapable destiny . And likewise the next generation , and the one after that , onward into the deep millennial future . The Eye was able to do little to relieve that deeply frustrating ignorance . We were able to ascertain that the object was more or less metallic . The Sword of Damocles , as it at length came to be called , had its course backtracked sufficiently to indicate that it probably came from the galactic center . Or at least from the direction thereof . But that was all . And where nothing was known anything could be imagined . The Sword of Damocles brought hope and fear in overwhelming abundance even though there was nothing to indicate that it would even pass within a hundred light-years of our solar system . Hope because it might be bringing a galactic future to our distant descendants . Fear because a thousand or more years from our now it might destroy our species . My only certainty was that I would have to die like everyone else now living never knowing the outcome . But then that has always been the fate of sapience , has it not ? To come into being knowing the history of the past perhaps but never to know the ongoing history of the future . To live and then to die knowing that the unfolding story will go ever on without us. Is that not every consciousness 's Sword of Damocles ? Is not its fruitless denial the source of all the ancient supernatural religions ? Cian consciousness exist without despair without at least something like it ? Religions sprang up that were not really religions because they rested upon no supernatural bases . Sciences sprang up which were not really sciences because while they violated no known scientific knowledge , they were based upon pure supposition The Sword of Damocles contained creatures both infinitely powerful and perfectly moral and would be our enlightening saviors . It was an empty starship coming to transport us to some galactic paradise . It somehow was sent to our present by our distant descendants to create their own future . There were cultures who called for the revival of the martial sciences and began producing powerful weapons . There were cultures who built mobile habitats and sent them forth in the general direction of the Sword of Damocles to welcome whatever was within it . The arts became utterly obsessed with imagining its contents . The only thing that was agreed upon was that no era of the human race had ever been forced to live through such millennia of utter existential uncertainty . And as I grew old , I approached the end of my long life lionized by the Order as the greatest First Dominus in its history and the foremost culture hero down below , though-or perhaps even because-I had never set f&lt;x ) t on any planet , moon , or habit of the Ecliptic , and never would . , and its prophet . " Remember thou art mortal , " slaves were commissioned to whisper into the ears of conquering emperors . Facing my approaching death knowing I would never know what my life had wrought , I needed no such reminder But I received one anyway . In the form of Dominus Sagan , frailer than even I now , appearing in my own quarters Two frail old humans near the end of our lives . Lives that could only be heroic or tragic in the eye of history but who would never know which . " It 's turned , " he told me " And it 's decelerating. " In his demeanor I could read what his next words would be . " And it is heading straight for us. " " How long ? " was all I could say . " " " No more than two millennia to reach our solar system , the minimum no less than a thousand years . " " Why us ? What have we done , Sagan ? " " As we are seeing the Sword of Damocles in its deep past , so must it be seeing us in ours . What in our past has attracted it ? The building of our Galactic Eye ? The first atomic explosions ? Whatever it was , it would have to have occurred centuries before we were bom , centuries before what our civilization has become now . Who is to say we have done anything . Arjuna ? " And it would seem to be the scientific truth . In addition to some twenty-five not&eacute;is and one hundred stories , lie has written tust produced feature films , the classic Star Trek episode " The Doomsday Machine , " film criticism , politiad commentary , and about three decades of literary criticism for . Asimov 's . Recently published not&eacute;is are The People 's Police and Osama the Gun . Written songs , sang them for money , hate not giten up day job though . Now living in Paris with Dona Sadock. 
Chapter One . A Project to share hard-won Lessons from the Author 's former Adventures . The unsatisfactory Nature of his Life in Redrijf , and his Forbearance of Society . A strange Sighting . Following a reluctant return to England from my fourth voyage , I conceived the project of reforming my countrymen with an instructive account of all that I had seen and learned . None can gainsay that the book thus written has made my travels famous . As for bringing about any improvement , however trivial , among my fellows , I must confess to abject failure . Of this disappointment I attribute a small part to a scurrilous publisher who took it upon himself to expurgate my report and a somewhat larger part upon my technical defects as an author . I assign the dominant responsibility to hubris and folly , for this undertaking was surely doomed from the start . Who but a fool might suppose any among his brutish kind capable of serious improvement-or even capable of printing books as the author intended and directed ? I once again would dine with my wife , separated one from the other by a long table . I would even converse , from time to time , if usually with but one at a time , with other members of my family . Of strangers and crowds , I perforce remained aloof . In large measure , then , I spent my days in the company of horses . In short , I did not know the troublesome publisher . Needs be , I had entrusted to my cousin Sympson , an advocate of this endeavour , to engage a publisher on my behalf . I had but recently begun a letter of complaint to my cousin about the unsatisfactory changes made to my book in its first edition when a new adventure overtook me. That afternoon , as many an afternoon , a favourite horse and I wandered across a rolling meadow wherein no one , whether highwayman or garrulous neighbor or mischievous child , might come upon me unawares . Sixty-six years of age , hard-worn by my past adventures , I was all too easily winded. Of a certainty , I had been mad with grief and loss upon my latest return to England . Was I insane on the day my new adventure began ? Am I mad yet this day ? In the unlikely event anyone should happen upon this , my latest account , the reader shall have to decide . Mad or not , I spent each day in Redriff in apprehension of the perversities into which people so often lapsed . How carelessly we become cutthroats and thieves , politicians and vote sellers , fornicators and prevaricators , drunkards and forgers , suborners and perjurers , lawyers and whores . Human , we might flatter ourselves to be named , but there was nothing humane about us ! And so , I never ventured from home without a hanger strapped to my side . Verily , I scarcely distinguished ' twixt the two perils . That afternoon , as many an afternoon , my muscles and joints complained of the exertion , and yet I rejoiced in that aching . It was a sign that ere many more years should pass , I would be relieved of the burthensome knowledge of my innate moral failings. As my friend and I approached the curving shore of the Thames , me gasping for breath , she neighing in sympathy , I espied out of a comer of my eye a disturbance of some kind . The air , although the sky was clear , of a sudden held the pungent scent of an approaching storm . The horse , too , sensing something peculiar , shied away . Even as I turned my gaze toward that indistinct disturbance , it began to take form . It changed into a bright flicker . The flicker became ... I knew not what . A shimmering rectangle afloat just above the ground . A featureless , translucent rectangle . Of a sudden , in but a few beats of my pounding heart , the whiteness faded to nothing . It was as if only the sheerest pane of glass separated me from a spacious room that had appeared out of nowhere-and as if from within that room , people in odd garb stared at me ! I had only an instant to consider this turn of events , for the apparition was too much for my friend . She galloped away , panic-stricken , and I ran after . Some rock , crevice , or gopher hole unseen in the grass snagged the toe of my shoe . My hat , and then I , went flying . My head struck a rock , and all went dark . Chapter Two . The Place of the Author 's Arrival . The Debasing of the Language . An uncertain Location.A curious Conversation . I studied this place intently . Walls and ceiling alike were of shades of white . The room , although windowless , was not dark , because the ceiling , without evidence of any flame , somehow gave off a steady white light . The wall past the foot of the bed held a large , shiny , black rectangle where a window might have been . The wall to my left had a large , paneled wooden door , the wall to my right offered two narrower such doors . All three doors were closed . The room , but sparsely furnished , held , in addition to the bed , a small wooden table , two cloth-covered chairs , a wooden chest of drawers , and divers other items whose natures and purposes eluded me . A scent of lemon was unmistakable . I swung my feet to the floor , which was entirely covered in white square tiles . Apart from my clothes , muddy from my fall , the room was spotless . As I sought to make sense of this strange place , the door to my left opened , to admit a man of most curious aspect . He was neither clean-shaven nor bearded but had a heavy stubble everywhere that whiskers could grow . His hair was curiously short . From my seated position , I judged him half a head taller than I and quite thin . His manner of dress was entirely unfamiliar . To begin , he wore no coat . His upper garment-without collar , its short sleeves not reaching even to his elbows- might have been some sort of mere tunic but for the fabric . That cloth was of a weave so dense and yet so delicate as to shame a lord 's finest shirt . I had only a glimpse of his stockings , for his trousers , going well below the knees , went almost to his spotless white shoes . At the appearance of the stranger , I had , by instinct , leapt to my feet and reached for the hilt of my hanger . The scabbard was empty ! He smiled , and never had I seen such even and white teeth . " Oh . You 're awake . " His English carried an accent I could not place . " Where am I ? " I asked . " Why am I here ? And where is my hanger ? " " You are among friends . You have no need far a sword . " " Among friends where , good sir ? " " Let 's start over . " He sat in one of the chairs and gestured at the other . " Call me Josh. " Short for Joshua , I supposed . And no surname ? I responded in like discourteous manner . " My name is Lem. " " Good to meet you , Lem . Please , sit . Are you all right ? Indeed , my head did throb . I wondered anew how the tiny strips held themselves to my forehead . " Can I bring you something for the pain ? " I declined , although , in truth , I would have welcomed a spot of rum . More than that , I needed my thoughts clear . I wondered if the blow to my head explained his strange speech . His discourse was English , but his manner of speaking-slurring some letters together , dropping other letters altogether , emphasizing the wrong parts of some words-appeared as indifferent as his manner of dress . I have a gift for languages that had served me on past adventures ; I hoped it would accommodate as well the butchering of my native tongue . " Where am I ? " I asked . " How did I come to be here ? " " We will get to that . " He hesitated . " After several urgings on my part and much circumlocution on his , I obtained , or so he would have me believe , a location . " We are in Chicago . " " Chicago , " I repeated . " I know not of this place . " " You would n't . " He shifted uneasily in his chair . " Chicago is among the largest cities in America . " " In the Colonies ? Impossible . If I had , insensible the whole time , been brought by ship across the Atlantic , I must surely have starved to death during the journey . I am not even hungry . The mud from my tumble has not fully dried . And while my travels never took me to that region of the world , I well know its major towns . This Chicago is not among them . " " It 's complicated . " Josh laughed uneasily . " Lem , are you familiar with latitude and longitude ? I know well about latitude and longitude . " " A ship 's surgeon and then a captain , " Josh repeated . " Lem . As in Lemuel ? " At my nod , Josh twitched . A disturbed look settled upon his face . " No . Impossible . It could n't be . You could n't be . " However peculiar this place , his reaction was familiar . The publication of my travels , no matter their failure to reform my fellow creatures , had achieved a certain notoriety . " As skeptics have remarked often of my voyages . " I stood to offer a courtly bow . " Lemuel Gulliver , sir , at your service . " Chapter Three . The Author learns Something of his Circumstances , and finds himself a Prisoner . He encounters much Doubt . The Impossible is asserted . His face gone white , Josh leapt to his Feet . " " " Wait , " I said . " There is much I would know about this place and why I have been brought here . " " Be patient , " he mumbled , turning for the door through which he had entered . Patience is a virtue , I had once been instructed , but so is persistence . And in recalling that lesson from my learned master , I was reminded of a more recent companion . " Where is Rebecca ? " I asked Josh. " Who ? " " The horse accompanying me on my walk . " " She 's fine , " Josh said dismissively . " She was racing away when we , well , took charge of you . Doubtless , she went straight home . If not , I 'm sure someone took care of her . " He had more faith in humanity than I. Better than most , I understood what sort we were . I had been years in exile , but Houyhnhnmland remained ever in my thoughts . There , calm and rational behavior held sway . There , every decision proceeded from the dictates of dispassionate reason . There , every conversation was imbued with , if not dedicated to the very topic of , some benevolent good . For a time , my master there permitted me to live in his household , to absorb some small part of his wisdom . As gentle and noble as were the Houyhnhnms , in appearance little different than horses , the creatures in that land of my aspect were wild and thoughtless beasts . Surely , I had at first imagined , we humans differed from these Yahoos we so resembled ! Indeed we did differ , the dispassionate reason of noble Houyhnhnms had shown me , but not in the way I had hoped . That I would not bring down upon their gracious heads the scourge of war ? Instructed by their insight , shamed by the brutish depravity of my own kind , I could but agree and comply when their assembly concluded that I must needs be banished ere I corrupt their Yahoos . Sending me away in a handmade canoe . Condemning me to live out my days among my own kind .... " Lem ? Are you all right ? " Houyhnhnms , in their virtue , did not , could not , speak an untruth . Their language lacked the very notion . If a statement seemed wrong , they were left , in confusion , to ask if the other " said a thing which is not . " Back among my kind , I had learned anew to lie . And so , my answer to Josh was , " Yes . " " Someone will be here soon , " I heard a soft click just as the door closed behind him . It did not budge when I tugged on its handle . On the opposite wall , the first door that I tried did open , at the same time bringing forth light from the inside ceiling . I found naught but an empty closet and no means of egress . Behind the final door , in a small room whose ceiling again lit when the door opened , I encountered : a porcelain basin set into a cabinet but no water ewer , a second basin set upon the floor like a chamber pot but half-filled with clear water ; and a large , empty washtub . This room , too , offered me no means of egress . As surely as upon my first awakening in Lilliput , I was a prisoner . Left to myself , I had picked up and examined , to little avail , many-of the curious objects to be found in my prison . I filled a glass and drank deeply . It appeared I would not die of thirst . Thus encouraged , I had , by further experiment , caused water to empty from , and then refill the chamber pot . I was still exploring this strange place when , with another click , the main door opened . A greybeard entered , of a round face and wearing thick spectacles , stoop-shouldered and of about my height . He had on a dark coat and a red cravat , alike of unfamiliar cut , over a clean white shirt , trousers to the ankles , and proper leathern shoes . More clothes were draped across an arm . " Good morning , sir , " he said . His manner of speech was somewhat less odd than that of Josh. " Good morning , " I agreed , although in this windowless place I could not know morning from midnight . " Are you a physicist ? " " Hardly . " He smiled . " Fresh clothes , however , were easy enough to provide on short notice . If you care to go into the closet and change , I will have your clothes cleaned . " I had already lost my hanger and my hat ; I did not want as well to lose my clothes . " Perhaps later . " " As you wish . " He set the clothes he had brought across the foot of the bed . " I apologize for not being here earlier . We did not expect you to be up so soon . Certainly Josh did not expect to find you awake . My name is Doctor Ignatius Kelly . I am an historian . " Why an historian ? I wondered . " Lemuel Gulliver . " At my name , inexplicably , he shook his head . " You gave young Josh quite a start by saying that . Please , sir , let us be serious . " My face became hot . " " He seemed dubious . " A famous book written at about your time has the title of Gulliver 's Travels . " About my time ? " I wrote Travels into Several Remote Nations of the World . Without my leave , the editor changed the tide . " Doctor Kelly removed his spectacles to polish the lenses with the end of his cravat . " Actually , Jonathon Swift wrote it . It 's a satire . " " More changes made by the accursed editor . He claimed there were too many travel books on the market . " With a sigh , still polishing his lenses , Doctor Kelly sat . " I understand how confusing it must be to find yourself here . I will explain as best I can . Please know you will be returned to whence you came . " A soft chime came from the man 's coat . He returned the spectacles to his face , then removed a flat object from a pocket . he said , poking with a finger at the little object . Colours shone from it . Pictures and text flickered and rushed past . At last he looked up . " Where was I ? Oh yes . Let us dispense with the notion you wrote that book . " I found no reason to debate which of us was the more likely to know my name . " Let us return to the question Josh did not , or could not , answer . Where am I ? " " The University of Chicago , in the city of Chicago . Let me show you on a map . " He cleared his throat . " OK Google , real-time satel- lite view of North America . Highlight Chicago . " Real time ? I had no knowledge of any other kind . Satellite ? Like the moon ? Like the worlds Galileo had seen circling around Jupiter , or the Laputans had discovered near Mars ? Instead of a navigator 's chart of the familiar type , I saw the continent as if from a perch so tall that the very curvature of the Earth became plain . The red expanse that I was evidently to believe a city sprawled along the southwestern shore of Lake Michigan . The Frenchman Jean Nicolet de Bellebome had reported only rude Indian settlements along that lake . As I gauged the scale , this supposed Chicago was ... impossible . While I studied the fanciful map , the small rectangle still in the doctor 's hands chimed anew . He resumed poking at it . Text flowed . Images flashed by . Soon , like some savant on the floating Island of Laputa , he had forgotten my presence . As he had no bladder-wielding servant to tap his head and restore his attention , I was forced to interrupt . " My good sir ? " Doctor Kelly looked up at the sound of my voice . For a moment , he seemed surprised to see me there . " " In an English-speaking city larger than London in the wilds of North America ? It can not be . " " In your time , you are correct , there was no such city . " " That is the second instance in which you have spoken of ' my time . ' How can my time be different than yours ? " " Because it is . Because my time is your future . " Struck all but speechless , I got out the words , " You speak a thing which is not . " " No , " said he , " I speak only the absolutetruth . This is ... my colleagues have brought you to ... the year 2022. " Chapter Four . The Impossible is demonstrated . The Author learns Something about Travel through Time . Another Impossibility presents Itself My voyages had taken me to many a strange place . But to a strange time ? To a time that had yet to occur ? until you admit this truth . Come . " As he approached the door , once again it clicked . " You did not as much as touch the door . How did it unlock ? " He waved an arm . " The door reads a tiny chip placed under the skin of my hand . Once you 're settled . I 'll get you a key card that will accomplish the same . But I ask that , for your own safety , you not wander about by yourself . Much you would find here will be unfamiliar and can be dangerous . " Upon descending from Uputa to the island nation of Balnibari , I had visited the Academy of Projectors in their metropolis . I well remembered how a savant of that academy , in the city of Lagado , aspired to extract sunbeams irom cucumbers . He would in that manner capture warmth to be released from bottles whenever the weather was poor . This University of Chicago knew folly to shame even the men of the academy . Except that this dtxtr had unlatched at Kelly 's approach I could almost begin to wonder if the unborn future was indeed real , was , in some wise , a place to which a person could journey . The door opened to his gentle pull . We proceeded down a long hall , artificially illuminated in the manner of my room , toward a distant wall of glass . I felt oddly weighted down , no matter my relief at leaving confinement . Through the wall that we approached could be seen the tops of trees , and it appeared we were in a tall building . Along the hall , we passed divers doors , some of wood , others of glass . At the end of the hall , we turned to the left , and beyond yet more glass , I beheld new wonders . More buildings than I could count lie before me . Directing my gaze downward into a grassy courtyard , through which divers men and women walked briskly , most garbed more like Josh than Doctor Kelly , I found myself to be fifty or more feet above the ground . The sun , shining between nearby buildings , was not too far above the horizon , and trees and buildings cast long shadows . Whether these shadows showed me midmoming or teatime , I could not judge . " Lift your gaze , Lem. " Miles distant , beside some ocean or vast lake , great towers reached into the sky ! " Skyscrapers , " Doctor Kelly said . That bold name seemed no exaggeration . " Many of those buildings stand several times the height of St. Paul 's Cathedral in London . Could anyone in your day build such things ? " " But am I , if I may coin a phrase , somewben new ? That , I can not believe . " " See my cell ? " He removed from a pocket of his coat the small black rectangle that had so fascinated him . With a few pokes , he made an image appear on it . " Do you agree this is a picture of those skyscrapers , just as you see them in the distance ? " " Yes , " I said , marveling that a depiction could be drawn in an instant . " Then come with me. " I followed him back to my room , wherein a segment of the globe still showed on the wall rectangle . " OK Google , " Kelly said to the air , then paused as if lost in thought . " Who is Master Google to whom you speak ? Where is he ? " " A servant of sorts , but not a person . Google is what we call a search engine . Instead of grains or metals or wood , Google works with information . " With information . That , surely , was yet more ethereal than sun-beams . " I do not understand . " " An invention made after your time , " he said . " OK Google , zoom in on Chicago , centered on this building . " So abruptly did the map change that it was as if I hurtled headlong from an impossible height to my doom . It was all I could do not to shout . " Slower . Slower . OK Google , stop . " He showed me again the little picture he had made on his cell , then pointed at the wall . " That view is from high above , at a different angle than what you saw out the window and what I captured on my cell , but do you agree both images show us tihe same buildings ? " " Almost a century had passed since the explorations of Jean Nicolet . If the construction of so great a city during those few years would seem a marvel , it was surely less wondrous than to travel into a new era. Feeling foolish at speaking to the air , I instructed , " Return to a global view . " Nothing happened . " You must begin each command with the words ' OK Google. ' " I tried again . " OK Google , return to a global view , then slowly approach Redriff , England . " A voice , slightly mechanical-seeming , declaimed from the ceiling : " Redriff unknown . " Self-important , chatty ceilings needs be yet another wonder of the future . I objected , " I was taken from Redriff. " Doctor Kelly poked at his cell . " As I thought . That neighborhood is known more recently as Rotheihithe. " " Just as magically as I had , moments ago , appeared to fall , now I seemed to soar . Then our vantage reversed . Our bird's-eye view converged upon Great Britain , then southern England , then approached closer yet to the ground until die familiar bends and curves of the Thames were plain to the eye . " OK Google , stop , " I ordered . The shape of the river left no doubt but that my view had come to a halt above Redriff- and yet this was no Redriff that I knew . There were far too many buildings , most of too many storeys , and no trace of my home . In the river , the ships , huge and of unfamiliar kinds , moved without having sails . All this lie deep within a city far larger than the London I knew . " Is that Redriff ? " Doctor Kelly asked , and I could not gainsay him . I said , " " Even in the unaccustomed bird's-eye view , there could be no mistaking the Tower of London nor Westminster Abbey . But among these familiar landmarks , beginning with a giant upright hoop along the river , slowly turning in place , was much I had never beheld . The Palace of Westminster itself , where Parliament sat , was much expanded and had sprouted two towers . And all about , divers skyscrapers loomed far above the Dome of St. Paul's. " Is this London ? " Kelly asked . I could only agree . " Is this the London of 1727 ? " " I can not say that it is. " " You see Parliament as it was rebuilt after a great fire . You saw skyscrapers in Chicago , where only wilderness stood in your time , and now you see such skyscrapers have also come to London . I ask you , my friend , when are you ? " What explanation , apart from what the doctor offered , remained to me ? But surely even the mightiest magician could not conjure a person who never had been . I took a deep breath . " I know not how , but I needs be in my future . " In the comfort of my room , a prison no longer , for I had a key card in my pocket , after a fine dinner arranged for me by Doctor Kelly , my state of mind was much improved since my confused awakening . I had , after instruction from the doctor , washed mud from myself in the bathroom , shaved my face with a curious buzzing razor , and changed into dean clothes of the modern style . To keep me company , Doctor Kelly had had his own meal delivered to my room . As he finished his pastry and set down his fork , I said , " Storms and shipwreck and the cruelty of pirates can deliver a person " -as I well knew of personal experience- " to an unfamiliar place . By what means can a man be delivered into a distant time ? " He tipped his head in thought . ' A fair but hard question . Fair , because having been brought here , it is but natural you would want to understand . Hard , for two reasons . My subject is history , not natural philosophy , and it is the natural philosophers who truly understand these matters . Second , because much has been learned in the many years since your time . For me to try to explain would be pointless . " " Whichever , you arc : basically correct . " " Then I would speak with one of your natural philosophers , " I said . " A physicist , I think you call them . " " Do you know of Sir Isaac Newton ? " Among the most famous men in all the world , and doubly so in England ? He had been buried in Westminster Abbey but a few months before my being taken to this time . " Of course . " " Do you understand his calculus ? His great theory ? " What need had a seaman to understand the calculus or the law of universal attraction ? None . What I knew of Newton was that as Master of the Mint his " reformations " of the coinage had brought much chaos upon the land . " Nothing . But you know more of the matter than I. " " As great in his day as was Newton , so in the modern era are Albert Einstein and Erwin Schr&ouml;dinger . It is upon such learning that travel in time relies . Even the men and women who build such engines argue among themselves bow it works . " I thought anew of cucumbers and sunbeams , but my very presence in the future gainsaid such skepticism . " I do not understand OK Google , but I can command it . " " Again fair . This much I can explain . There is an engine down the hall in the Temporal Laboratory . This engine opens a gateway to other places and times . Scholars like me look through the gateway , the better to understand history . " I remembered the apparition that had star- tied poor Rebecca . " And those of us in history can look back . " " Yes . " Kelly slid away his empty plate and began twisting his napkin . " he said . " How people work and live forms a part of my studies . " " This gateway is more than a window , else I would be at home , smoking my pipe . " " As you say . " " So someone from here-was that you ? - went through your gateway and brought me here . I can well understand an historian 's curiosity about my travels . What the publisher did to my work was a travesty . " " Why do you persist in this absurdity ? " Doctor Kelly 's foce of a sudden had grown quite red . " Having seen all you have of our technology , how can you possibly expect anyone to believe this ? Not the least speck of land on this world is uncharted . " " I do not understand your ire . I am Lemuel Gulliver . My travels are famous . " " Have it your way , " he said . " " He turned to me , expectantly . Whilst I stared , in silence , slack-jawed . Up the coast from a great bay , where the land of Brobdingnag , vast homeland of gentle giants , must jut for into the Pacific Ocean , I espied ... only ocean . Chapter Five . Beyond even Time and Place , yet more is thrown into Confusion . The Author struggles to prove he exists . " I do not understand ! " Surely my determination of latitude and longitude on my second voyage could not have been so mistaken . " OK Google , show me Brobdingnag . " " I do not know a place of that name , " a voice answered me from the ceiling . " Let 's try this another way , " Doctor Kelly said . " OK Google , what is Brobdingnag ? " The ceiling spoke again . " On the display , the deceitful map gave way to a more complete narrative , albeit with only haphazard attention to spelling and the use of capitals . In the days that followed , I adopted that minimal usage of capital letters . If naught else , the practice saved ink . Bewildered , I tried again . " OK Google , show me the islands of Iilliput and Blefuscu. " " I do not know of places by those names , " said the voice from the ceiling . " OK Google , can you show me Laputa ? " It claimed to know nothing of the floating island , either . The doctor said , " OK Google , what do Lilliput , Brobdingnag , Laputa , and Houyhnhnmland have in common ? " Even as my mind reeled , I could not desist from inquiring , " OK Google , who is Lemuel Gulliver ? " The ceiling replied , even as a new confounding article appeared on the wall . " The fictional protagonist and narrator of Gulliver 's Travels . " " Would you care to read what an encyclopaedia has to say about Lemuel Gulliver ? " Kelly asked , " or are you prepared to offer your true name ? " Truly , I was struck dumb . I shook my head , wondering how the people of the future dealt with their lunatics . I had horrifying memories of Bedlam , but for all I knew those memories were as fictitious as ... myself . " We will speak again tomorrow , " Doctor Kelly said . Bidding me a good evening , he let himself from my room . My mind awhM , I slept but little and poorly that night . That the ceiling continued to glow brightly did not help . As I opened the door , the hall changed from dark to light . The Temporal Laboratory , apart from a scattering of green glows , was dark . Next I paused , for a long while , at the limit of my ex- cursion with Doctor Kelly . There , at the long wall of glass , I contemplated the bright lights of the city and the more enigmatic flashing lights traversing slowly across the sky . I studied the moon , high overhead . Was it from that orb , I wondered , that OK Google kept its eagle-eye watch ? But none of it could deflect my mind from the puzzle that was ... me. Soon after I came to a dooriess doorway , beside which was a plaque reading Break Room . The ceiling brightened as I entered , revealing a strange box-like engine labeled Refreshments . Writings on these packages were mostly cryptic , but a few words thereupon suggested foods . Indeed I would not have minded a morsel , but I found the coins in my pocket were too thick for the indicated slot . Turning to go , I espied , on a small table , a small notebook with flimsy covers , its pages bound by a metallic spiral . The pages were wondrously thin-there might well be a hundred sheets in the slender volume-and very white . The pages were marked with faint blue lines : guides , I suspected , for the quill . Flipping through the pages , I discovered them to be quite empty . I put this most fortunate find into my pocket and proceeded . In the distance , I heard voices , the words indistinct . I walked toward them . Ceiling panels lit before me as I proceeded , and went dark behind me . Sensing a pattern , I retreated , then went again forward . The lights ever accompanied me . Why did only the ceiling in my room stay ever on ? Perhaps the man and woman I heard could instruct me how to turn off and on the lights in my room . Proceeding farther than on my earlier expedition , some few feet of brightness overhead accompanying me as I went , I turned the corner into a new hall . I espied , midway down a murky passage , light spilling from an open doorway . Though here the exchange was more audible , I almost doubted the words were English . Withal , it seemed clear the conversation was heated . I made myself a mental note to remember the divers strange words , intending to ask OK Google to explicate . In that endeavour , I largely failed . Only much later , in the composition of this account , have I , with much effort and great difficulty , recalled these strange words to mind . I stood still as a mouse , several doors removed from the occupied room , considering whether to intrude . " I know people above my pay grade , Nobelists among them , say that 's a valid demonstration of robustness in the timeline . Any theoretical effect of our peeking and poking and having shanghaied Everyman just dampens out . Somehow . " " But ? " a man responded . " But how can we know we 'd know if something had changed ? Maybe we never see that the timeline has reconfigured because we 're a part of it . We 've been reconfigured , too . " " You 'd know . " The man laughed . " You never forget a damned thing . " I heard a clinking as of glasses and thought I caught the smell of ale in the air . Indeed , the whole back-and-forth , middle-of-the-night bickering had somehow the feel to it of idle chatter among young folk . I remembered that well from my days at University in Leyden. Or were those more of the fictitious memories of a fictitious Lemuel Gulliver ? " ... Two-dimensional time , " the man was saying , " has to be the most absurd load of handwavium since collapsing of the wave function . " " Uh-huh , " the woman said , " and whatever that means , we know the math of it is correct . " She laughed . " Unless you disbelieve in your iPhone , Xbox , and FitBit. " " Really ? You truly believe the universe splits every time we open the gateway ? How many fracking universes do you suppose there are ? " " Not nearly as many universes as there would need to be if the many worlds interpretation solves your collapse of the wave function conundrum . That , somehow , is an academically respectable load of- " Of a sudden , the hall went dark . I fear I made a startled noise . " Is someone there ? " It needs must , somehow , read motion as the modern doors read a key card . I approached the lit entrance to offer my apologies . The man and woman I had heard were within . He appeared African and had a long face and shaved head . She , of some type that I could not judge , was petite and had more than ample hair , albeit of an odd , mahogany colour , for them both . Their casual attire reminded me of Josh . Each slouched in a tipped-back chair , with shod feet resting on their respective desk . Empty bottles were arrayed across their desks. " Speaking of Everyman , " the Man murmured . " It 's Gulliver . " " Do not mock me , sir . " " Sorry , " he said . I nodded . " Pardon my intrusion . I would have some help . " That aid was provided forthwith . With mere sweepings of a Finger , I could control the lights and alter the temperature . Had I the wit to have asked , OK Google would have so instructed me . I retreated to my room , dimmed the lights , and bade OK Google a good night . In the blessed darkness , I tossed and turned until , at long last , I was taken into the arms of Morpheus. Chapter Six . The Author ' s Beliefs are at once explicated and refuted . Return to his Time is considered . I had but recently awakened , much refreshed , when a brisk knock came at my door . With my acknowledgment , Doctor Kelly entered , followed by a short woman I did not know , who reminded me of women I had seen in Japan on my travels home from Glubbdubdrib . Doubdess , those places did not exist either . Kelly said , " It appears that I owe you another apology . " " And why is that ? " She is a physician . " The woman nodded , as if to herself . " Sir , I am Jennifer Watanabe . You arrived here having injured your head . The technicians on duty cleaned the wound and closed it with a few butterfly bandages . " She touched her own brow where mine yet wore the odd cloth strips . " You said you were fine apart from wanting a bit of rest , and they " -she gave her colleague a hard stare- " left you alone without contacting me. " " I have no memory of these things , " I said . " After I fell in pursuit of my horse , I awakened in this room . " " Likely you have a concussion . Do you know what that is ? " Had I been a surgeon as I yet believed ? Howsoever , I believed I knew the term . " An injury to the brain , as by shaking or by a blow to the head . " " Exactly , " " And hence , it would seem , I had forgotten my very arrival in this time , likely in passage through the Temporal Laboratory . " Why ? " I asked , " does Doctor Kelly owe me an apology ? " He shrugged . " For doubting you . " I did not understand . " How , if Brobdingnag does not exist , could you believe me ? Or does OK Google tell lies ? " The woman said , " In your time , as I understand it , Gulliver 's Travels , is newly published and very popular . Without warning or choice , you , like Lemuel Gulliver , have found yourself in a very strange place . You are told of science- " " Natural philosophy , " Kelly interpreted . " Sorry , " she said . " You are told of natural philosophy that must seem magical . The mind will invent memories , if need be , to fill in the blanks . Confabulation , we call it . It 's your mind doing its best to make sense of what must otherwise seem a nonsensical situation . " She paused . " I hope I am being clear . I have not studied how English was spoken in the eighteenth century . " " Compared to some , " I said , " your speech is most lucid . " I had in mind my new acquaintances from my explorations the night previous , but from his frown , it seemed Doctor Kelly took my remark as critical of him . As an olive branch , I offered him the much-folded sheet of paper that had accompanied me to the future . " Albeit I have no honest memories to offer , I have this one small document . It will not speak false . " He put the note into his pocket , unopened , no more pleased than before my gesture . " Anyway , " Doctor Watanabe said , " " And then I shall remember who I am ? " " Almost certainly , " she assured me . " In the meanwhile , you need to take things easy . Do no exercise or exertion . No excitement . Try not to think too much about all this . " Not think about having been transported into the future ? About the loss of my memories , of even my name ? It seemed an impossible prescription . " And until that remedy should take hold , what shall I be called ? " " You can choose a name . " She had a pleasant smile . " Or stay with Lem . You are n't Gulliver , but you may well be a Lem or Lemuel . That would be all the more reason why you might have conflated yourself , I mean , identified , with Gulliver . " " A word , Doctor ? " With a quick tipping gesture of the head , Kelly showed that he meant outside my room . " We 'll be right back . " They went into the hall , shutting the door behind them . However much concussion had addled my memories , my hearing remained excellent . I could not help but to overhear some of their loud dispute . " . . . without memory . .. unreliable ... no benefit to the program , " Doctor Kelly said . " Our resources ... limited .. budgets .. discredit entire ... we ... send back home . " " ... fault , " Watanabe said . " .. abandon a .. with amnesia and delusions ? .. . will raise . . . stink if ... " " Hold it down , " he urged . Thereafter , I discerned only such widely scattered words as to be without sense to me The door opened , and they returned to my room . " Lem , " she said , " if I may call you that , we need to do a few tests to be sure your injury is n't too serious . " I accompanied Doctor Watanabe to a nearby building for a cat scan and a noisy test she called an MRI . Both , she explained , would somehow take pictures of the inside of my skull . After , as I finished breakfast , once again delivered on a tray to my room , she came to discuss her results . " No internal bleeding , just a concussion . That 's good . All you need is bed rest . " And then , unmindful of the irony , she added , " And time . " Chapter Seven . The Author 's Wound heals , but not his Memory . Conversations with a new Friend . Puzzles and Perils of Travel in Time . I found it hard to obey the order to take bed rest . Lemuel Gulliver was a man of action . Whosoever I might be , I knew not any other way to act . " I mean you no disrespect , " he said , " but I can read Gulliver for myself . If-I mean , when-your memories return , then we shall have cause to talk . " And until that day should come , he left me with divers books to amuse me. The top book on the pile was Robinson Crusoe . Indeed , I had heard of that . I began the novel with high hopes , only to find disappointment . That mariner 's adventures paled beside those I , however falsely , still remembered as my own . In truth , I envied Crusoe 's lot . The memory remained quite real to me that I had attempted , after my exile from Houyhnhnmland , to lead a solitary life on a remote island . Alas , a cruel Portuguese captain had " rescued " me , withal I had had no desire to leave . I found I had not the heart to open any more of the books . Among the most puzzling , found at the back of a drawer , was a slim , clear cylinder of perhaps six inches in length . Along the center was a much thinner cylinder , it as black as soot . When , upon a whim , I removed the cap covering an end , I discovered a tapered metallic tip terminating in a tiny metallic ball By gently sliding that ball point along a page in my spiral notebook , I made a perfectly fine mark . Compared to a familiar quill , this modern pen was a marvel and an excellent match for my new notebook . And-every day , and many a sleepless night-I devoted much of my time to turning over in my mind every strange thing I had seen or heard here . Those efforts yielded little in the way of sense . When Doctor Watanabe came next to call upon me , she declared my wound much improved , with no sign of infection . I asked her leave to explore the university . When Josh brought my next meal , I made the same request of him , but he had been instructed otherwise by the physician . That evening , I returned into empty halls and made my way down several flights of stairs to the ground storey . There , too , I was thwarted , for a night watchman stationed at the entrance sent me back . My confinements during past adventures had oft been far less pleasant , I consoled myself-only to remember , yet again , that the events so vivid in my mind needs be mere figments from the blow to my head . I reversed course , setting out for the office I had visited soon after my arrival in this era . If ever a beer had been in order , this seemed the occasion . The future , alas , had other plans . Of a sudden wearied by my exertions , I took my key card to hand and turned toward my room . The door gave way to my gentle pull , and the lights within came on . I looked for awhile at the cryptic engines , pulled the door shut , and continued with halting steps to my room for much needed rest . I spent the following day in my room , in yet another failed attempt to take interest in Robinson Crusoe and a somewhat more successful effort to see Chicago . The latter exploration was not as I would have preferred , by walking about the streets and lanes of the city , but with the aid of OK Google . The place itself was amazing in both its extent and the incredible heights of its buildings . Horseless carriages of divers sizes careened about . Multitudes teemed everywhere . To the north and west of the university , I discovered a large , flat expanse named O'Hare Airport , to and from which great winged vehicles called airplanes somehow flew . I looked also to divers places at greater and greater distances from Chicago . The changes were most striking by dark of night as seen from OK Google 's high vantage , wherein the continents and islands blazed with dots and splotches of bright light . One needed a diligent search to find a few scattered places not marked by man . Had my studies proceeded no further , I might have been well pleased , but it was my misfortune also to ask OK Google if this era offered a gazette with tidings of the day . Then , for what seemed an age , I perused articles from recent issues of the Chicago Tribune and the Chicago Sun-Times . The particulars often escaped my comprehension , but the theme was clear : murderous outlaw bands here , there , and everywhere around the globe . The hallmark of this era was fanatics slaughtering innocents with guns , and with bombs , and even with air somehow turned poisonous . Whether or no my Houyhnhnm master had ever existed , I could not gainsay his wisdom . We had not the wit to resist perverting technological progress into new debasements mere brute Yahoos could scarcely imagine . When , at last , the chatter of people abated in the hall , after OK Google assured me the hour was late , I set out in search of a beer . In the office where I had first met them , I again encountered the young man and woman . He was named Alan , she Patricia . I introduced myself only as Lem . Alan borrowed a chair from a nearby office , and I sat , contemplating the words framed upon the wall . The sign declared : Not only is the Universe stranger than we think , it is stranger than we can think . I knew not this Werner Heisenberg , but my own experiences must surely have proven him right . " Let 's see what we have for tonight . " Alan opened the door of a small box found beneath a table , giving rise to an outpouring of cold air . I found this Guinness to be a fine porter , putting aside the barbarity of serving beer cold . Perhaps drink loosened my tongue , for nearing the bottom of my bottle , I found myself asking an impolitic question . " How is travel in time possible ? " Patricia sighed . " Lem , I can not even begin to explain . You would need to learn centuries of science to understand . " " I do not mean the mechanics of such travel . I mean what is implied by it . If you go to the past , do you not change it ? And changing the past , do you not then change your own time ? Even , perhaps , to the point of preventing that first change ? " Alan said , " And the man from the past nails it on the first try . " He clinked bottles with mine . " That is the question , is n't it ? " Patricia said , " But if I was never bom , who was it who traveled back in time to prevent my birth ? So I am bom " That she was born , then not , then born , then not , then ... My head began to pound , and not , I thought , from my concussion . I took refuge in my beer . She mistook my confusion . " No one need literally be killed , Lem . The grandfather paradox is what we physicists call a thought experiment , a way to illustrate the problem you asked about changing the past . " " People from your time went back to my time to get me . Therefore I am here-or , I should say , now-and not then . Does that not show the past has changed ? " " In point of fact , I went back , " Alan said . " Well , two of us from the team did . And it was n't exactly a well thought-out plan . " Of a sudden , his eyes brightened . " Would you like to see ? " Leaving my new bottle to warm up for awhile , I said , " I do not understand . " In the future , I said that often . He leaned forward to gesture with his hand over a small square on his desk . It appeared he , like Doctor Kelly , had had a chip placed under his skin . " OK Chronos , access lab surveillance for the morning of April 12. " Chronos . Was he not , for the ancients , the personification of time ? Perhaps this was but one more thing I knew that was not so . " ' OK Chronos ' ? Not ' OK Google ' ? " " They 're similar , " Patricia said , " but not the same . Google is a service for the public . Chronos has its own tricks and is only available to the few of us in the Temporal Project . " She laughed . " " The Temporal Laboratory , as if spied upon through a peephole in its ceiling , appeared on a wall display . Among the divers people therein , I recognized only four : Doctor Kelly , the historian , seated at a sort of desk with many buttons ; Josh , he who had first greeted me here ; and my two new friends . After a bibblebabble of conversation and much milling about , the laboratory fell to silence , and everyone crowded into one end of the room . Kelly waved his hand over a square on his desk , then he poked repeatedly with one finger at an array of buttons-its numbers all in a row but tine letters of the alphabet in a jumble . OK Chronos , with a mechanical voice like OK Google , announced through the wall display , " Gateway initialized. " " That means , made ready to work , " Patricia said . " Of a sudden , sparkling , a rectangle appeared in the recently emptied portion of the laboratory . The rectangle became , much as I remembered , a window that turned quickly into a box . " Gateway active , " OK Chronos announced . Beyond the wall display , in the laboratory , through the box ... there in the familiar meadow were Rebecca and I. Rebecca galloped away . I chased after , fell , and struck my head . There followed the immediate events of my arrival of which I had no memory but which the physician had related . Then , at Doctor Kelly 's command , the magical box shrank and vanished . At my ardent request , we watched it all a second time , and then a third . I would have seen it yet again , but for the evident impatience of my new friends . Patricia said , " And so , our careful , step-by-step research was shot all to Hell . " Events indeed brought to my mind the Pandemonium described by John Milton in Paradise Lost as , after a shocked moment of hush , the crowd in the laboratory had erupted into tumult . These watchers dared not to leave me to bleed to death where I fell . In a single unlucky stroke , their opening into the past could have undone my descendants unto the final generation . The lesser risk to the timeline needs be to whisk me away , to succor me , and then return me . Doctor Kelly was quick to promise the gateway would restore me to a brief moment after my mishap , it mattering not whether I stayed awhile to heal . They might as well learn from me about my time . And so , Josh and Alan ventured through the gateway to get me . I saw myself carried back to the laboratory . A cursory search was made of my pockets-for other weapons , I supposed , as naught more was taken from me . I saw myself stir , shake off the stupor of the blow , to gaze about in wonder-averring all the while , to all and sundry , whilst staggering about as though giddy , that I had no need to see a physician . I saw myself firmly led to a chair , and seated , and my wound attended to as had been explained to me previously . I had , indeed , lost these memories . Withal the wonder of events , much still seemed odd . " This all looks ill-considered. " Alan nodded . " Because it was . Sure , we had done short-range controlled experiments . We had moved small objects an hour or two . We 'd moved mice in cages , to be certain time travel did n't harm living creatures . After that , a few of us , volunteers , had even been shifted by short times . The History Department had only just held its lottery to pick a professor and a time period for the first longrange viewing . Old Man Kelly won , proposing to study the effects of the some early World War . The War of the Spanish Something-orOther ? Succession ? 1 forget . The point is , we were n't prepared to bring anyone to our time . " Gulliver had been abroad , but for the occasional few weeks , for the duration of that conflict-and mad long thereafter . I knew no more of the matter than he . It seemed doubtful I could assist Doctor Kelly in his studies . " Why bring a person here at all ? " I asked . " Why not speak with people in their own time ? " " However long , days , even weeks , we may speak here , we can return a person to scant seconds after he or she left . " " We had a plan , " Patricia said , " until you and your big , dumb feet changed everything , Thereafter , we had to make it up as we went along . " " But why look to a remote meadow for someone to interrogate ? " I had to ask . " If you would study the past , why not deal with the King or a general or another great personage ? Surely such as them are more involved with great events . " " Because , " Alan said , " such people are seldom unattended . And even if we could meet alone with one , the meeting by itself almost certainly tvould change the past . " And so they would seek someone for whom neither his presence nor his absence would be of any note . " Whereas when one such as I returns to my own time , prating of horseless carriages , flying machines , and search engines , it will be taken as merely a wild tale . Time travel or concussion , either was confounding . To experience both ? That was impossible . " And that 's why we expect you 'll say nothing at home about what you 've seen . " Alan offered me another bottle , although I was scarce halfway done with my last . " Time travel messes with your head , does n't it ? You might as well enjoy what parts you can . " Chapter Eight A frustrated Historian . The Importance ofa mere Sheet of Paper . The Author 's Identity reconsidered. I had but recently finished a stroll when Doctors Kelly and Watanabe came to my room . My sojourn in the future had by then gone on for nearly a month , and apart from the brief venture out for my cat scan , I had yet to leave the building . As ever on her visits , the physician bade me to do odd things . I counted backward from seventy-three . I walked along a line between two rows of floor tiles . I sat , gazing up and down , left and right , wherever she directed , while she , standing close to me , studied my eyes . " He 's fine , " she concluded , changing it to , " Lem , you are fine . For a week now , you 've been totally fine . There 's no remaining evidence of concussion. " " Except for amnesia . " I had learned the word from her . " Withal I can now remember my arrival in Chicago " -for which , I did not doubt , the seeing of the event had certainly been a help- " I have no memories before that apart from Gulliver's. " " Except for the amnesia . " She looked in turn at Doctor Kelly and at me . " To be honest , I 'm surprised none of those older memories have come back . Kelly frowned . " Do we know if those memories will ever come back ? " " Know ? " She considered . " Sorry . Maybe a neurologist-Lem , that would be a physician whose specialty is conditions of the brain- would offer a different answer . After a great many tests , of course . From my reading , though , I have my doubts . Being here may compound the very problem we wish to address . The old , familiar sights may be just the thing to reconnect with those misplaced memories . " " And if Lem stays awhile longer ? What likelihood is there of any improvement ? " She shrugged . " Thanks , Doctor , " Kelly said . He pulled his chair closer . " I guess that 's it , Lem . Time for you to go home . " But where was home ? I " knew " only of Gulliver 's . " I would rather remain awhile , and see more . " " It is true , but you heard the Doctor . A return is for your own good . " He stood to go . " If it helps , Lem , I am truly sorry for the harm we have caused you . " The sooner I returned , the sooner , perhaps , I should recover my name and my memories . " When will it happen ? " He looked at die physician . She peered again at my brow , from which , days earlier , she had removed the narrow bandages . " Another few days , and the cut will scarcely be noticeable . Meanwhile , I 'll nm a few tests to be sure Lem does n't carry any modem bugs back with him . " " Bugs ? " I asked . " Tests ? " She said , " It 's complicated . I just mean we want you to be well when you return , and not give your family or neighbors some modern disease . " Was aught in this era not complicated ? " Very well . " Doctor Kelly said , " And we ll have a barber come by . It would n't do for your hair to have grown an inch while you took your walk . " In a few days , then , I should return to my past-and thereat an uncertain future . Two days after Doctor Watanabe took a sample of my blood , a knock came at my door . I expected a barber , but the caller was my friend Alan . He came with most unexpected news . " Congratulations , " he said . " You have brought on a revolution . " " I do not understand . " And that statement was more true , even , than usual . He liad not before visited my room . " Look where they stuck you . They might at least have given you someplace with a window . " He rubbed his chin in thought . " OK Google , show us a sunset view of Big Sur . " In a twinkling , what had been a featureless black rectangle became a rocky coast , and wild ocean , and roseate sky . " That 's more like it . " " I did not know OK Google could do such things . " " Just ask . If you make a request it does n't understand or ca n't handle , it will tell you . " As OK Google had said of Brobdingnag when I had asked . But neither a window nor its lack had brought Alan to see me . I asked , " What was this of a revolution ? " Alan plopped into a chair . " Some while back , I take it , you gave Old Man Kelly a letter . Evidently he was too busy to give it a look , what with the university administration being all over him about bringing you here . And fighting for another chance with the gateway once your situation gets sorted out . " I took a guess . " So he has now looked at the letter , and found it of interest ? " " Interest is far too mild a term . What is implied by your letter is-no other word will serve-revolutionary . To the historians and the , urn , natural philosophers . " In my youth , I had lived through what had become known as the Glorious Revolution . That popular sobriquet notwithstanding , I recalled the King 's expulsion and the accompanying tumult as well less than glorious . Was any revolution ever to the good ? " Once more , I do not understand . " " You 'd better sit . " I did , and Alan leaned toward me . " The letter you furnished is from Captain Gulliver to his cousin , complaining about changes to his book . " " Indeed .... " Yet again , confusion overtook me . " But wait . Whichever applied , he assumed you had written it after arriving here . Only you didn't. " Indeed I had n't . " True , but how can anyone know that ? " " Carbon dating . " Alan shrugged . " That 's another modern technology it would take too long to explain . What 's important is that Doctor Kelly was thorough enough to have had your letter authenticated despite his doubts . Both paper and ink are confirmed to have been made between 1720 and 1730 . Also , the review of an expert confirms the text of your letter was written with a quill pen . " " Paper and ink made in 1727 , certainly , whence I came . And in that year , with what implement but a quill could I have written it ? " " You arrived sans inkpots and quill pens . You ca n't have written the note in this time . " " How can I be someone whose adventures never took place ? I can hardly have voyaged to the divers places he reported , when even OK Google , with his view from on high , knows naught of those lands . " " Interesting , no ? The easy answer is that you were delusional before the gateway ever opened , though why your family let such a person wander about unsupervised is curious . " " I do n't much like being called mad , nor do I see yet any revolution . " " No , I suppose not . " Alan took a deep breath . " That brings us to our next expert , a professor of literature . She is well-acquainted with the writings of your time , including Gulliver 's Travels . That book was first published in ... " " 1726 , " I supplied . " The year before I came hence . " " Another edition , she told us , came out in 1735 . Alan stood to pace . " That letter is , word for word , 90 percent the same as what you gave Old Man Kelly . " Too confused to consider the implications , I asked , " And the few differences ? " " Minor , I 've heard . Even the few new passages are in style like the rest . " I could imagine but one answer to this riddle . " It needs be I am this ' Jonathon Swift ' whom your historians say wrote Gulliver 's Travels . " " Compared to the alternatives , a split personality would be easy to believe . The thing is " -Alan completed a slow circuit of the room and started anew- " paintings of the day show us his appearance , and you and he look not at all alike . Historians also have records of his journeys , and he was in Ireland when we visited you in England . " " " " It does n't seem logical , I agree . Everyone agrees . Yet more puzzling is that far more matches up than two versions of the letter . The method is subtle , comparing choices of words , turns of phrase , and the like , but the experts conclude your letter overall is a match to the whole of Gulliver 's Travels . " Struggling to find some sense among these revelations , I conceived of another explanation . " Then this Jonathon Swift stole my manuscript , to have it published as his own . " And perhaps anger at such villainy , rather than adventure and misadventure , was the source of my past madness . " Historians here rejected that possibility . Swift was a famous author , friend to several others , and dean of Saint Patrick 's Cathedral in Dublin . To the certain knowledge of many , Swift wotked for years on the manuscript that became Gulliver 's Travels . " There is not one history , but many , and your gateway plucked me from a history other than your own . " " Lem , you are a constant amazement . That is exactly what I think happened . " Chapter Nine . More than the World turned upside down . The Grandfather Paradox explained . Of a sudden , Alan ceased his pacing . " As fascinated as I am by all this , there 's something more important you need to know . They ' re no longer planning to send you back . " " I do n't mind staying awhile longer . Now that your colleagues know me to be sane , I hope to see much of this city and this time . " " They may never send you back . " He paused . " They ... we ... may not know how . " " I do not- " " Understand , " he completed . " " The universe has more tricks than ever I imagined . Those who accept the many worlds interpretation-and I 've now joined that small minority-envisioned reality after reality splitting off . Imagine limbs , then branches , then twigs of a tree , a new split whenever more than one thing could take place . " A new world with each choice any person made ? " If so , there are many worlds indeed . " " It now appears the development and increase among the worlds is not so ... simple . " This was simple ? I was loath to ask , but I did . " How so ? " " Your world has whole regions unknown to us . Geographic features form slowly , and it suggests your world and mine can only have split very long ago . But you speak recognizable English , and that suggests a considerably more recent split . " " Perhaps I am mad and from another world . " You could , but I do n't think you did . Once we had to take seriously the possibility of other histories-other timelines , as we call them-we used the gateway to take another look . Before , we had opened the gateway only near London . When we opened the gateway where Brobdingnag should be , we found that . " I had to smile . " It would be hard to miss . " " Also giants . And all sorts of things that made no sense , and that did n't care whether we thought them possible , that flat-out do n't exist in this world . Forget how long it takes to raise continents . The very laws of Nature must be different , going back to the Big Bang " The Creation , I presumed that to mean , his phrase seeming more than a little irreverent . He went on and on for awhile about squares and cubes and ratios , and gravity , and Brobdingnagians who would be unable to stand in this world . That rather than sprouting branches in the manner of trees , timelines needs must ever be spawning an ever more tangled web . I was too overwhelmed to take it in. " But what , " I asked , breaking into the torrent of words-and worlds- " has any of this to do with whether I stay or return ? " " Right . " He considered . " We designed the gateway to open a path back , not to ... not to ... " trailing off , I surmised , in search of words I might understand . I offered , " Not to go sideways ? " " That will do . We do n't know what makes the gateway go sideways , or how far , or how it makes a connection with another timeline . And not knowing how it made the connection once , we could n't know if we could reach the same timeline twice . " He managed a grin . " You would n't understand . " " And indeed I do not . " " The good news , " Alan said , " if you care to think of it this way , is that at least we may have answered one deep question . It may be there are no grandfather paradoxes because no one can go back into their own past . They can only visit , or create , another timeline. " Withal my head was veritably spinning , I tried to un-jumble my thoughts . " So your gateway can not reliably find my home ? " " Exactly . " " And if I were prepared to take the chance ? " " It 's just too uncertain . Too dangerous . The authorities wo n't allow it . " Cannibals ? Firebreathing dragons ? Werewolves ? I said , " You know how operate the gateway , do you not ? WilljwM allow it ? " I took his unease as answer to my first question and his silence as answer to my second . " If I am to stay , Alan , what do the authorities intend for me ? " " And so we come full circle . " Looking weary , Alan settled once more into a chair . " I do n't know . Hell , no one knows . The thing is , you 're not only from another time , you 're from another universe . " " Not only is the universe stranger than we think , it is stranger than we can think . " He blinked . " Exactly so . What I expect , and why I 'm here to warn you , is that you 'll be studied to , well , hopefully not quite to , death . " " And if I choose not to be interrogated and vivisected ? " " It wo n't be quite that bad . " He sighed . " But it wo n't be much fun , either . That 's why I 'm here-as a friend . You ca n't go home , so you need someone from here to look out for you . To guarantee you the right to decide what is and is n't done to you . To assure you the right to just say no . " He pondered a bit more . " And someone to protect your rights in the next book you write . You 'll want that to pay your way in this world . " " And that someone is you ? " " If so , God help us both . Lem , I 'd like to bring in a lawyer to talk with you . If you agree , to have him represent you . " Lawyers , I had explained , were " Bred up from their youth in the art of proving by words multiplied for the purpose that white is black and black is wbite , according as how they are paid . To this society , all the rest of the people are slaves . " My disquisition that day on the subject had served only to demonstrate , yet again , the vices to which my kind is both inventor and heir . Nothing since my exile had softened my opinion of that profession . Was I now to entrust my safety and future to lawyers ? Once lawyers were involved with a problem , who but they ever saw any benefit ? Whenever did a lawyer rest until his client had become destitute-an affliction certain to befall me sooner than this vast university . Alan 's plan would , at best , postpone the divers tests and trials he foresaw . I needs must give this matter some thought . " Chapter Ten . The Author takes Matters into bis own Hands . His Adventure reaches its Conclusion . As soon as Alan took his leave , I turned my attention to the study of geography . To this end , OK Google was of great assistance . Soon several pages in my spiral notebook were filled , in tiny script , with what I had learned . As many an evening , a servant , what the university called a graduate assistant , delivered the tray with my dinner . I thanked him , then ate well and completely , knowing that , if all went well , this could be my last hot meal for awhile . As I waited for the halls to empty , I gathered bits of food set aside from past meals . I had been saving provisions in case of an emergency , and surely my present straits could be so described . Once those pockets , too , were filled , I removed a blanket from the bed and draped it across my shoulder . When , at long last , I deemed the hour sufficiently late , I used my key card to open the door . Listening carefully , I heard naught in the hall but the faint hum of the refreshments box . With an empty scabbard slapping against my leg , I hurried to the Temporal Laboratory , whose door opened , as on an earlier excursion , upon the close approach of my key card . I closed myself inside , with an edge of blanket trapped between the door and the lintel . The hall went dark even as the door swung shut , and , I hoped , the blanket dangling within would hide-should anyone come seeking refreshment-the light that now shone in the laboratory . With a sweeping motion of a finger , I dimmed the ceiling . Seating myself at the desk from which Doctor Kelly had opened a gateway to Redriff , I espied the small square over which he had , that day , passed his hand and its chip . I waved my key card over the same spot , then pressed buttons among the array just as I had seen him do . If he had , as I surmised , used the buttons to enter a secret watchword , and if I remembered aright the letters and numbers therein , my plan might succeed . OK Chronos spoke the words upon which that plan relied . " Gateway initialized. " I retrieved my notebook and , as I had observed Doctor Kelly do , directed OK Chronos with regard to date , time , latitude , and longitude . Instead of the coordinates for Redriff , I used the first location from my list . With a whiff of pungent storm scent , the gateway opened- Alas , the view therein brought me only disappointment . " Then , the third . And at my eighth try , I smiled . " OK Chronos , " I asked , " Can you remember and then follow a group of instructions ? " " Yes . " " OK Chronos , can an instruction placed at the end of such a group make you forget things ? " " Yes . " I ordered , " OK Chronos , here are my instructions . Five minutes after I have passed through the gateway , close it . Then , erase all records of where I went . " Remembering how Alan had shown me my arrival to this very room , I added , " Finally , erase any images of me this night . Can you do all that ? " " Yes . " " OK Chronos , when I have left through the gateway , proceed as I have just ordered . " I stepped out from behind the desk and went through the gateway . With my pen all but emptied of ink and my spiral notebook all but filled with tiny writing , I bring to a close this account of my latest adventure . In anticipation of this event , I have long preserved a treat , it being the last of the food that I brought hence . These Oreos will , I believe , go nicely with a bit of fresh milk of coconut . And then , withal that the sun is yet high in the sky , I have no plans for the day apart from a nap , and throwing the occasional fallen branch onto my cooking fire to keep it going , and enjoying the sunset . And tomorrow ? Tomorrow I shall tum my attention to the adventures of Robinson Crusoe-whom I doubt not , on some timeline , is as real as myself . Edward M. Lerner is a physicist , computer scientist , and curmudgeon by training . Writing full-time since 2004 , he applies all three skill sets to SF and popular science . Ed 's authorial web site is edwardmlemer.com. 
