Sergeant Lever called them vultures . Red eyes and weak backs , he said , they can squeeze the juice out of sand . He told me at some point you have to stop explaining yourself . At some point you have to stop forgiving . We had been talking about women for over an hour . He about his wife and two kids , twins , and me about an email-based relationship with a girl I had met two weeks before deployment . It was n't quite complaining , our talking , but neither of us seemed to be trying to really figure anything out either . After he stopped talking without making any real final point he stood up and went into our bunker . I stayed sitting on our stoop for a while longer , looking at the stars and smoking cigarette after cigarette until my lungs could n't take any more . My dad said the first quarter-century of life is going to be a real bitch . Strange choice of words , I thought . In eastern Afghanistan the stars were like a glittering blanket , much brighter and closer together . Even the seasons here were better , more individualized , which at first surprised me , because , I guess , coming to a war zone , I expected everything , even nature , to be , well , fucked . But it really was n't that bad . I was strangely enjoying myself and I wondered if any of the other guys felt the same way . I mean , just a few days ago I was flying over a ruby red opium field with my feet hanging out the door of a Blackhawk helicopter and looking out over a land that was in every way foreign to me because it was so beautiful and that made me feel ... important . Tomorrow my platoon was getting up early for a presence patrol mission somewhere South of our FOB , 1 so I headed inside and slept . The village of Rabat was forty kilometers southwest of FOB Orgun-E , our home base . 1 Bumps or potholes in the road made our twenty-ton trucks gyrate drunkenly , and an antenna snapping off was less than rare . Despite lugging around guns and explosives , I felt it was our equipment that most of the time kept us from actually looking intimidating . Four of us from third squad were crammed into the back of the MRAP ' -which is basically the equivalent of a short bus on steroids with a massive gun on top that has a three-sixty degree turn radius . Instead , those of us in the back talked about the usual things . " I almost hooked up with a porn star one time , " Strickland said . We all laughed . " What 's so funny ? " " Man , you always tell stories about how you almost hooked up with some chick . No one wants to hear it . Give us a good story for once or shut up , " Morales said . " It is a good story . " " Fine . Tell it , Strickland , " I said . " Alright . So . I was at Scooter 's Tavern with Barker-from Fox Company-and we were just getting hammered . " As he spoke spit came from a depth in Strickland 's mouth that seemed unnaturally deep . " I mean f&auml;gerbombs and Trash Cans all night- " " What 's a Trash Can ? " Morales asked . " I clarified . " It 's the fastest way to all sorts of bad decisions . Chicks love it . " " Anyways , " Strickland continued , " we 're both just drunk as hell . Then Barker starts talking to these two chicks , right , and I 'm like , ' Damn , I know one of those girls , ' so I say to her , ' Where do I know you from ? ' and she 's like , ' You 've probably seen one of my movies , ' and then it comes back to me . I realize this chick does some of the nastiest videos I 've ever seen-I mean , hell ! -and here she is standing right in front of me like it 's no big thing . It was crazy . " Strickland expressed a genuine amazement at his own story with noiseless laughs and wide eyes . " Is that it ? " I asked . " What do you mean ? " " Dude , that was the worst fucking story that I 've ever heard , " Morales yelled . I doubted anyone was going to get shot at that very moment , but then again I was all too aware that frustration among young men is a different animal when those involved are all carrying guns . " Easy , Morales , " I said . " No , man . I 'm tired of listening to this hick tell these stupid fucking stories , ok , ok , ok . First of all , at what point did you almost hook up with her ? " " I mean I could have . She 's a porn star . " " Are you kidding me ? Is he kidding me right now ? What the fuck does that mean ? " " Porn stars loves to screw , man . Duh . Girls get into that business because they love the dick.s I 'm not saying I 'm special-that girl probably would 've slept with anyone at the bar . It 's just that I could 've if I had gone for it . " " Is this guy serious ? " Morales asked me . " You know she 's an actress , right ? As soon as that camera goes off someone is putting cash in her hand . " " And a towel on her face , " Carter , our gunner whose lower half was the only part of him exposed to our conversation inside the truck , said loud enough for us to hear . By this point , I had gone from being unrealistically weary of Morales 's finger on his trigger to holding my sides , laughing so hard that it hurt , my lungs thrusting and being constricted against my breastplate armor . Morales himself had his head in his hands making an exaggerated shake of disbelief and confusion . I had been with Strickland since airborne school so I knew better than to analyze him , at least in any way constructive . Ricky , the fourth junior-memher of our squad , had been fast asleep throughout the debate . His head was grotesquely lopped back against the interior wall and his mouth was wide open . If this drive turned out to be a particularly long one , which statistically was likely to happen , odds are I would at some point pour a powdered sports drink mix into Ricky 's gaping mouth , causing a hilarious wake-up scene : it would n't be the first time I 'd done it . Our convoy moved through the city of Sharubi , and now our platoon was the farthest south we had been since arriving in the Phaktia province five months prior . Rolling hills turned into peaked mountain ranges in the distance before us , but through the small windows all we could see was a flatland of dry grass and riverbeds . Here and there a cluster of small adobe houses stood , and the people that lived there waited by the edge of the road for us to pass by . We were told that that was just part of the culture and that it should be respected , but when you work a job that only men are legally allowed to do , and then go to country that does n't allow their women to be seen in public , you go a little-well , I just wanted to see a woman . " You know what I think your problem is , Strickland ? " Morales had apparently overcome his anger and now approached the subject of pornstar realism with an amateur-like shrinkish glow . " You simply have n't spent enough time around women . I mean , it 's not all your fault . Like the majority of the infantry , you signed up because you 're a closet fag . You were subconsciously drawn to the one job left in America that forbids the inclusion of women so you could be around dick all the time . " Strickland 's face went cherry sports drink powder red . " He 's kidding , Strickland , " " I bet if you just spent some real close time in the proximity of women-I do n't even mean in a relationship or anything like that-I 'm talking real life , ordinary immersion-you 'd understand that there 's more to women than tits and pussies. " Carter 's second piece of commentary coming through the gunner 's hatch caused nods all around . " There 's the asses , too . " Morales continued . " I grew up with seven siblings . Four sisters and three brothers . Totally even . And let me tell you , man , the difference between men and women is this : biology . That 's it . You read Murakami ? Why do I even ask ? I know you have n't . He said it best , though : ' Girls have periods and guys jerkoff. ' " " Girls jerkoff . " Strickland 's eyebrows basically disappeared under the rim of his helmet he was so excited at the thought . " " Of course they do , Strickland . That 's not what Murakami meant . He just meant that the difference between the sexes is not important . Everybody 's an individual . " " Well , generally speaking , " Strickland straightened his shoulders , " girls are more emotional than men . " " Generally speaking . Generally speaking . " Morales bobbed his head and made a Brandoesque-pause . " Have you ever thought about the productivity of general statements ? " The question alone temporarily stunned Strickland 's thought process and he looked like a balloon leaking air as he dealt with it . Morales continued . " General statements are for people that are intellectually lazy . They 're meant to summarize the unsummarizable . They 're simple answers to complex questions that do n't match reality . What do you think sexism is ? " " Hold up . " Strickland put a palm out in front of him in a stopping motion . " What ? " " I ca n't wait for coed bathrooms , " I said . " Look . You 're single , right Strickland ? " Morales asked . " Yeah . " " And you were finding it hard to date back in Alaska , right ? " " You know I 'm awkward with girls , Morales . You know that , man . " Strickland blushed and his lips puffed and pouted . " Take it easy , buddy . Take it easy . You 've got to cut out this ' I 'm awkward with girls ' stuff . It 's messing with your head . Every time you tell yourself that you 're awkward with girls you 're just reconfirming some rude remark some other asshole said to you . " I know someone did , Strickland . That 's always the case . It 's not your fault . You may have been awkward that one time , but that does n't mean you 'll always be awkward . It 's not a disease , some sort of incurable trait that you ca n't overcome . It 's a judgment according to one asshole in regards to one specific event . It was , essentially , a general statement . " Strickland was in shock . I got my canteen at the ready , waiting to splash him . " You might 've not even been awkward . Maybe it was the girl that was awkward and you were just having a hard time making a connection . Approaching someone with the intention of flirting is like dealing with a cobra . Then I hissed and quickly jabbed my fingers into Strickland 's thigh . " Snakebite . " It did n't get that much of a reaction . Strickland had the look of a man who just found religion , like those I 've seen in bad movies . He was eyes-wide staring at nothing and his mouth made a little o . Morales leaned back and breathed and although he did n't show it , I knew him well enough to know that he felt proud of himself . I was ever determined to ease the conversation in a less ethical direction . I patted both Strickland and Morales on the knees , and decided to further evolve my previous " coed bathroom " soliloquy . " Actually , I take that back . Coed bathrooms would suck . " " What 's the difference between girls and guys shitting ? " I do n't know when Ricky woke up , but apparently my opinion on coed bathrooms was more interesting to him than the contentiousness of the Strickland-Morales lecture on women 's studies . I gave Ricky an appreciative pat on the knee for chiming in . " Volume , my boy . Volume . " The road began to climb and skirt the edge of a mountain . I felt my nerves climb with the truck and I felt the pistol grip of my rifle in my hand . A deep valley lay to the left of our direction of travel , and the road itself was barely a single lane . " There 's water in the river down there , " I noticed . No one answered . The water was strangely blue for such a small stream , and the grass around it a brilliant and vibrant green . A few of us yelled Fuck and grabbed our helmets . Through the front window I saw a massive cloud of dark grey smoke billowing up from where the lead truck had been , and then I saw the truck , twenty feet in the air above the cloud and upside down . It was barrel-rolling in slow motion , suspended in the air before it crashed down on its top and began to roll down the mountainside . With all its twenty-tons , the tumbling heap was at the bottom of the valley before any shots were heard . Then bullets started pinging against the side of our truck from the across the valley . Our gunner , Carter , began firing into the mountain to our left , strafing rounds back and forth in short bursts . The noise from the fifty-caliber machine gun echoed throughout the body of the truck . Somebody yelled " Dismount . " Sergeant Lever jumped from the front passenger seat and was flying up the hill breathlessly , leading by example , me , Morales , Strickland , and Ricky doing our best to keep up . We came to a crest and got onto our stomachs . Ricky emptied a whole magazine at the opposite mountain . " What 'd you get ? " Sergeant Lever yelled . Ricky loaded his second magazine and pressed the charging handle release , loading the first round . " Not a damn thing , Sergeant . " He immediately began firing again . Sergeant Lever looked over at me and we both started firing shots at the mountain too . The whole ordeal was too loud , but incredibly exciting , and as 1 was shooting at different rocks on the mountain opposite us , I admit I daydreamed , picturing myself as a movie star in an action flick . Probably Bruce Willis . After it was quiet for a few moments , Sergeant Lever asked me , " You ok , man ? " " Fine . " Breathless . Sergeant Lever lowered his head to his hand-mic that was attached to his shoulder . " Punisher One , Punisher One , this is Punisher Six , SITREP , 6 over . " Me and the others looked at the hand-mic and we all waited for an answer . " Punisher One , Punisher One , SITREP , over . " A dust cloud was rising to the sky from where Punisher One hit the IED7 and another cloud was rising from the bottom of the valley . The clouds twisted and contorted themselves . " Sergeant Lever , who was gunning the PL 's truck ? " A third cloud too , a green one , rose into the air from the valley . Lieutenant Kroll 's voice was slow like he had just woken up . Punisher Six , Punisher One ... Situation : two wounded , likely multiple fractures and concussions ... No KIAs ... I 've popped green smoke . " God damn , " Sergeant Lever said , not into the mic but to whoever was listening . He began laughing and I smiled back at him . " I ca n't believe they 're alive . " " Jesus , man , " Ricky said . He was still scanning the mountainside. " Is it over ? " " They know the first thing we do is call in air support , so , yeah , they 're gone . " Lever looked around . " Cherries popped , boys . " It took a few hours to retrieve our guys from the valley , and by that time it had begun to rain . Ricky volunteered to go down to our truck and get ponchos , but Sergeant Lever said we would hold out a little longer . The rain started slowly , but by nightfall it was coming down in thick streams and " a little longer " turned into eight hours sitting in the rain . The shale mountainside got slick and it became a constant struggle to stay in one position . I was shivering and furious at Sergeant Lever for not letting Ricky go get ponchos . I thought a lot of the times that he did things like this he was just trying to prove how tough he was , how easily he could laugh in the face of misery . I thought it was ridiculous and reckless . We were already getting shot at in a war zone , was n't that tough enough ? I looked around at the other guys ' faces to try to see if they were hiding any hate towards Sergeant Lever too . 9 We made a fireguard schedule and I got first shift , which was the best because I was already awake . I watched the other guys curl up under one small twisted tree and try to fall asleep . I sat behind the gun and pulled my collar up to my chin and felt my lips go numb from the cold , and at that point I hated Afghanistan , not just Sergeant Lever , and it was n't fun anymore , and the next seven months were going to be harder and scarier than I thought . I counted every minute of my one-hour shift before waking up Strickland . Footnote 1 FOB : forward operating base . Footnote 2 One of the technological discrepancies that bothered me more than anything was the inconsistency the Army had when dealing with units of measurement . 6 km to every i mi was n't that difficult , even when it needed to be done quickly . What bothered me was that the company that the military bought our trucks from must not have known that we , the military , communicated logistically within the metric system ; or maybe the company did know and just did n't care , and so they installed speedometers that operated in mph , not kph , because they already had them , thus requiring an unwanted series of calculations before every mission . 14 kph and recalculate the distance already travelled , distance left to go , and an estimated time of arrival depending on whether or not all variables went according to plan-inshallah. 3 MRAP : mine-resistant ambush protected . Footnote 4 The majority of a platoon is made up of four squads , each of which is made up of two teams : alpha and hravo . Additional components of a platoon are the platoon leader , platoon sergeant , medic , radio operator forward observer , and often an interpreter , or terp for short . Footnote 5 Such a belief as Strickland 's was more common among my fellow patriots than I care to admit . But when spoken in Strickland 's accent-well , the word drawl seems too charming to characterize it . Stupid is as stupid does . " Footnote 6 SITREP : situation report . 7 IED : improvised explosive device . Footnote 8 MEDEVAC : medical evacuation . 9 Buttstock : the end of a gun , opposite the barrel , that rests against the shoulder . The standard issue M-4 Carbine has a hole in the end of its buttstock . Standard operating procedure for smoking at night in the field was to smoke into the buttstock as a preventative measure against providing enemy snipers the glimpse of a red glow indicating the position of an American head breathing in. 
Such a pretty sky . Want to be a pilot . Jabber on , pretending , zooming through the backyard . " You 'll get dirty , " mama says . " Come inside . " Ca n't have that , ca n't get my dresses dirty . Mama makes sure I 'm pretty . Pretty like the sky . But Johnny stays outside . I watch . And when mama does n't watch , we play . As long as I stay clean , so mama does n't know . Zoom around , we 're pilots . Johnny has no dress to keep clean . I let Ashy get hers dirty . Do n't like it when Brett keeps me waiting . Always worried . Could get hurt . I 'll see the car , he wo n't be there . " I 'm sorry " , they 'll say . Scares me . Have to stop worrying , not good to worry . He 'll be home soon . He should have been a pilot . Could have been pilots together . Like mama was . I think ? I do n't know . Please hurry . Pretty sky 's getting darker . Should be home by now . " Mum ? " " Ashy ! " " Mum , are you gon na come inside ? It 's getting dark " . Such a pretty voice , nice and soft . Good girl . " Your father 's on his way . You should play . Play with Peter before the sun goes away . " Ashy wants to say something , it 's painted on her face , but goes inside instead . Wish she 'd be more confident . Need confidence to be a pilot . " Do n't be silly , " mama says . " Now help me hang these up " . Groans as she bends , she 's in pain . My fault , I should n't play . I should help more , like she says . Like daddy says . Help while Johnny plays . Not like Brett . I 'm very lucky . Where is he ? Such a pretty sky . " Mum ? " says Johnny , " Come have some dinner . " Dinner 's not for ages . " Mama said I ca n't get dirty . " I look up . But his face ... so young . " Mum ? " " I said I ca n't play , Johnny ! " Getting dark . Daddy will be home soon . Should help mama get things ready . No time to play . Help and wait . Always waiting . When I 'm old , I 'll play when I want . " Johnny ! " When did he get here ? Sits next to me . " Ashy 's worried , mum . " " You have a new girlfriend ? Have I met her ? " " You liked her , remember ? " " Your father will be home soon . " " Mum ? We do n't start without him . I hope you 've done your homework . " " I have , mum . " " Good boy " . So proud . He could be a pilot . Brett says I 'm too old . And I 'm a good mother . Ashy needs me . Peter needs me . Do n't want anyone to say I 'm selfish . Daddy says I 'm selfish , wo n't wait my turn . Johnny goes first , that 's the way it is. " But I 'm older ! " Daddy looks at me . Mama 's quiet . Pain . Smack , smack , smack . " You have to say you 're sorry " . Mama knows what 's best . " Do n't be ungrateful . You 're a very lucky girl , not like I was ' . Mama knows what 's best . Do what mama says . Say the words and do the things . Make daddy happy again . Daddy stands , makes me scared , walks inside . Better when he ignores . I wish Johnny still were here . So unfair . " You do n't understand . " Mama 's voice inside . " She 's not getting better . You ca n't stop it . " Is that Johnny 's girlfriend ? " Just cause you 're too scared , Peter ! " " What are we supposed to do ? Stick her in that place you found ? So you do n't have to deal with it anymore ? " " Grow up , Peter ! " So angry . My fault mama 's angry . " You think this is easy ? You think I want to put her in there ? Why do n't you take her and see how you go ? Tell me what it 's like waiting around watching her die " . Sad , funerals . Poor Johnny . Pretty sky for Johnny , getting dark . Still a bit of time to play . " Ashley ! Keep your voice down . " Do n't listen , Ashy . Be a pilot . " It 's just a rough patch . She 's just waiting there , that 's all " . " Do n't you get it , Peter ? It 's the same night , every time . She 's not just waiting for him . She 's waiting for him that night " . Waiting , waiting , waiting . She 'll be home soon . High school . No more dirty backyard dresses . Have to say it 's still ok , so she knows . Wish she 'd play outside again , like she did when she was young , with Peter . Mama 's wrong . I want to play with Johnny , I like getting dirty . It 's just a dress . Daddy likes pretty dresses . " Mum ? " Ashy sits beside me. " You ca n't keep waiting , Ashy . Have to make a choice . " " What do you mean ? " " I know , mum . " " You should study , Ashy , I want you to study . " " What ? " " Do n't be scared . " " I 'm not scared . " " Good . " " Mum ? " Might not come home . Hate the force , wish he 'd leave . Always worried . " Mum , I finished , remember ? Remember my grad ? " " I 'm proud of you . Wait until your father hears . " " Mum , why are you waiting ? Come inside . Please . " " You 're so impatient . Need to learn to wait . " " Are you sure ? That sounds like something grandma would say . " " No , I do n't want to be a grandma for a long time , Ashy . You should wait . " Quiet . Old car turns down street , goes towards pretty sky . Fades away . " I start next week . " " I know , sweetie . Proud of you . Have you told uncle Johnny yet ? He 'll be so happy . He thinks I should go study , I do n't think mama would like that . " " But ... " And she sighs . " I 'm sure he would be . Mum , my job . The hospital , remember ? " " I do n't like them . When 's your graduation ? " Ashy 's face is angry . Do n't like her when she 's angry . Not right . Need to smile , make people happy . " What 's wrong , sweetie ? " Looks away , towards the sky . " Why do n't you come inside , mum ? " Is that him ? No . Should be home , soon . All those uniforms . Sad faces . Wish he 'd leave the force . Always makes me worried . " Have you done your homework , Ashy ? come inside . Please . " Wish Johnny still were here . " When are you getting married , Ashy ? " " What ? " " You need to settle down . " Such a worried face . I know why mama 's worried . Mama knows . " Mum , what are you talking about ? " " A man , Ashy , you ca n't keep waiting , you 're getting older " . " Are you ok , mum ? " Still sore . Mama says I should n't fight . Waiting 's better . Wait and dream , be a pilot . " Mum ? What 's wrong ? " " Waiting for your father , Ashy. " Warm hands , always warm , Ashy 's hands . " Mum , come inside . " " He wo n't be too much longer . " " I made plum chicken . Come have some . " " Daddy 's not home yet . " " No , we have to wait . " " Come on , mum . " Grabs my hand . Ow . " Come inside . " Pull away . " Stop it . Do n't touch me. " " Mum ! " Nurse yanks , such a disapproving face . Judging . Knows what I 've been up to . Sorry , mama . Ca n't keep waiting , do n't want to stay , get up , get up , try to get up . Struggle . Hear the door . Men . " Help me ! " nurse yells . " Get her inside . " Struggle . Rough hands , power , pressing down , a man , a stranger , strange faces , wo n't let me stand . Scream . Help me , mama . Waiting . Just wait . Dream . Be a pilot . Zoom around the backyard . Such a pretty sky . There 's a woman in the next seat . Moaning . Who knows ? I see her every time , always in that chair . Always moaning , always ignored . I saw her eyes , once , and I wondered if there was something still there , something inside . But I try not to see the eyes . I can look at mum , but not her eyes . It 's too hard . Try to connect . Try not to at the same time . " Pilot " , mum says . She always liked the sky . Even now , every time I visit , there she is , in her spot right next to the window . " Pilot , " she repeats . It 's one of the few words she has anymore . I wish I knew why . Sun 's beginning to set . " Did you like the sky today ? " And she looks at me . But not really at me . You ca n't ever tell what she sees . " Johnny . " " Oh yeah ? She just looks back at the sky , sadness spreading over her face . It would have been nice to see him again . Such a long time ago , all that was . " Are you ready for dinner , mum ? " Wheel her to the dining table , tuck her under , just the right height . Here they come , one by one - the evening rush . The sticks and wheels and walkers . You need some cruel humour in a place like this . I touch her hand . I 'll never know what 's going on inside . " Ashy. " The word sends a thrill down my spine . Like always , a jolt , a momentary hope of recognition , but the moment fades to disappointed realisation . She does n't really know . " Pilot . " " That 's right , mum . I 'm a pilot . Just like you wanted " . No smile , nothing . I just touch her hand again . Like it 's resting . No , it means nothing . The mind plays tricks on you , here . Creates things that do n't exist . Except that they did , once , a long time ago . All the years and memories this place would hold if those memories still existed . Surrounded by arched backs and sagging faces , and by my side is mum , the youngest face in the room . Sitting at the table . Waiting for her turn . Always waiting . Author Alexander Forbes is an Honours graduate of the University of the Sunshine Coast Creative Writing program . He is currently completing a Master of Applied Linguistics at the University of New England , analysing the discourses and lexical semantics of mental health terms using Natural Semantic Metalanguage. 
